.TH em 1 "11/26/91" "Institute for Biomedical Computing"
.SH NAME
\fBml\fR, \fBem\fR, \fBfbp\fR - Reconstruct PETT VI
data using a maximum-likelihood algorithm
(\fBml\fR or \fBem\fR) or filtered backprojection (\fBfbp\fR).
The \fBml\fR and \fBem\fR commands are the same.
.SH SEARCH PATH AND ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE
This directory must be added to the search path in the user's .cshrc file:
.sp
.ce
\fB/usr/local/pkg/ml/bin\fR
.sp
This line must be added to the user's .login file:
.sp
.ce
\fBsetenv\fR \fBIBCML\fR \fB/usr/local/pkg/ml/bin\fR
.SH SYNTAX
\fBml\fR  \fBrootname\fR \fBcompound\fR \fBstudies\fR \fBpixel\fR \fBreso\fR [\fBreso\fR ...]
.sp
\fBem\fR  \fBrootname\fR \fBcompound\fR \fBstudies\fR \fBpixel\fR \fBreso\fR [\fBreso\fR ...]
.sp
\fBfbp\fR \fBrootname\fR \fBcompound\fR \fBstudies\fR \fBpixel\fR \fBreso\fR [\fBreso\fR ...]
.sp
The first three arguments, \fBrootname\fR, \fBcompound\fR, and \fBstudies\fR,
are used to select the data files to be reconstructed.
Only data files with names which are consistent with all three of
these arguments are reconstructed.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBml\fR  \fBP2042\fR \fBHO\fR  \fB2\fR   \fB2.87\fR \fB12.0\fR
.sp
\fBfbp\fR \fBM318\fR  \fBall\fR \fBall\fR \fB2.0\fR   \fB8.0\fR \fB10.0\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fBrootname\fR 10
is the root of the file name.
All data files with names that begin with this string,
and are consistent with the \fBcompound\fR and \fBstudies\fR
arguments, are reconstructed.  Examples are "P2042" and "M318".
.IP \fBcompound\fR 10
is the compound which is encoded in the file name, i.e. HO, CO, OO.
Allowable forms for this argument are given in the table below.
.bp
.nf
------------------------------------------------------------
|  Format               Explanation               Example  |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|    all   | Reconstruct all data files.        |   \fBall\fR    |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
| compound | Reconstruct all data files for the |    \fBHO\fR    |
|          | named compound.                    |          |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|          | Reconstruct all data files for all |          |
|          | compounds in the list.  Spaces are |          |
|   list   | not allowed between the compounds  | \fBHO,CO,BU\fR |
|          | and the commas.  The files will be |          |
|          | processed in the order specified.  |          |
------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.IP \fBstudies\fR 10
is the numerical identifier of the studies to be reconstructed.
(Do not confuse this argument with any numbers in \fBrootname\fR.)
This argument has six possible forms, as shown in the table below.
.nf

------------------------------------------------------------
|    Format         Explanation                    Example |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|     all     | Reconstruct all data files.      |   \fBall\fR   |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|    even     | Reconstruct even-numbered data   |  \fBeven\fR   |
|             | files.                           |         |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|     odd     | Reconstruct odd-numbered data    |   \fBodd\fR   |
|             | files.                           |         |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|      n      | Reconstruct study number n.      |    \fB3\fR    |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|             | Reconstruct study numbers m      |         |
|             | through n, inclusive.  Spaces    |         |
|     m-n     | are not allowed between the      |   \fB2-9\fR   |
|             | numbers and the "-".  Also, m    |         |
|             | must be less than or equal to n. |         |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|             | Reconstruct the study numbers    |         |
|             | listed.  No spaces are allowed   |         |
| i,j,...,k,l | between the numbers and commas.  | \fB1,10,3\fR  |
|             | The files will be processed in   |         |
|             | ascending numerical order.       |         |
------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.IP \fBpixel\fR 10
is the length of a side of the square image pixels, in mm.
The only valid values are 2.0 or 2.87.  Choosing values other than
these is an error which causes processing to halt and an error
message to be printed on the user's terminal.
.IP \fBreso\fR 10
is the full-width at half maximum reconstructed resolution of the
images, in mm.  One or more resolutions may be specified, separated
by spaces.  A separate 7-slice image is created for each resolution.
The resolution may contain fractional mm.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PETT VI data must first be preprocessed on a Concurrent computer.
After preprocessing, each set of data consists of several files.
There should be one normalization ".N" file, one transmission ".T" file,
and pairs of emission ".E" and randoms ".R" files, one pair for each
run.  These files must be copied to a computer with the \fBml\fR, \fBem\fR,
and \fBfbp\fR commands, or the data may be available through the
network file system (NFS).  Files with a ".B" extension are not used.
.sp
The file names of the emission and randoms data are expected to consist
of a string of letters and numbers called a \fBrootname\fR, followed
by a string of one or two letters which denote the \fBcompound\fR,
followed by one or two numerical digits which denote the \fBstudy\fR,
followed by the ".E" or ".R" extension.
The file names of the normalization and transmission data are
expected to consist of the \fBrootname\fR, followed
by the ".N" or ".T" extension.
.sp
The names of the reconstructed image files are compatible with OS/32
on the Concurrent computers.  The extension is used to encode which
reconstruction algorithm and arguments were chosen.
Each character of the extension is discussed below.
.sp
first character - If maximum-likelihood processing was chosen by
typing either the \fBem\fR or \fBml\fR commands the first character
is "M".  If filtered backprojection processing was chosen by typing
the \fBfbp\fR command the first character is "F".
.sp
second character - This is used to encode the reconstructed resolution.
The reconstructed resolution is rounded to the nearest mm and then
translated from an extended hexadecimal scale, shown in this table.
.nf

-----------------------------------------------------------
|  Character     Resolution  |  Character     Resolution  |
|---------------------------------------------------------|
|      7            7 mm     |      E           14 mm     |
|      8            8 mm     |      F           15 mm     |
|      9            9 mm     |      G           16 mm     |
|      A           10 mm     |      H           17 mm     |
|      B           11 mm     |      I           18 mm     |
|      C           12 mm     |      J           19 mm     |
|      D           13 mm     |      K           20 mm     |
-----------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.sp
The reconstructed resolution actually used by the reconstruction
programs is \fBnot\fR rounded to the nearest mm.  The rounding takes
place only for the purpose of deriving the file names.
.sp
third character - This is used to encode the pixel size.  The images
with 2.87 mm pixels have 100 rows and 100 columns.  The images with
2.0 mm pixels have 128 rows and 128 columns.  The third character
can be any of those shown in the table below.
.nf

------------------------------------------------------------
| Character                      Meaning                   |
|----------------------------------------------------------|
|     P        2.87 mm pixels (standard PETT VI)           |
|     Q        2.87 mm pixels (compressed Concurrent file) |
|     S        2.0  mm pixels (standard Super PETT IIH)    |
|     T        2.0  mm pixels (compressed Concurrent file) |
------------------------------------------------------------

.SH RESTRICTIONS
The pixel size must be either 2.0 or 2.87 mm.
.sp
The reconstructed resolution cannot be better than the intrinsic
resolution of the scanner.  This means that the parameter \fBresolution\fR
must be greater than 11.7 mm if the emission scan was performed with PETT VI
in the low-resolution mode, or greater than 7.1 mm if the high-resolution
mode was used.  At least one resolution must be specified, but there is
no upper limit (except disk space) on how many may be specified.
Very little extra execution time is required if more than one resolution
is specified.  As a basis for comparison, the resolution of images
reconstructed on the Concurrent computers using standard software and
"filterg" is approximately 17 mm.
.sp
More than one reconstruction at a time is not allowed in the same directory!
You must wait for a reconstruction
to finish completely before starting another one.  Type
"\fBmore logfile\fR" and examine the last line to determine whether
the reconstruction is complete.
However, multiple concurrent reconstructions are allowed if two
or more sets of data files are stored in different directories and
the reconstructions are started from these different directories.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS AND MESSAGES
The \fBml\fR, \fBem\fR, and \fBfbp\fR commands ordinarily run silently
and do not output many messages to the user unless an error occurs, with
a few exceptions.  Messages are either written directly to the
user's terminal or into a file called "logfile".  The log file can be
examined by typing "\fBmore logfile\fR".
.sp
Messages sent to the user's terminal are usually displayed within a
few seconds of invoking any of the commands \fBml\fR, \fBem\fR, or \fBfbp\fR.
If any of the arguments is illegal then error messages will be sent
to the terminal fairly quickly.
.sp
The log file is overwritten each time a new reconstruction is done.
It is therefore important to read the log file after each reconstruction
to see if any errors occurred.  Four types of information are put into
the log file.  First, the date and time is inserted into the file whenever
a new phase of the computation begins or ends.  Second, the command
that is being executed and its arguments are echoed.
Third, various status messages are given.  For example,
it is noted whenever a 7-slice image has finished being reconstructed,
as well as how many 7-slice images (called studies) are being processed.
(Because the execution time of the EM algorithm is fairly long,
the software attempts to reassure the user by recording when
reconstruction of the first slice is completed.)  The completion
of the entire reconstruction task is signaled by a message like this:
"All 2 studies completed".  Fourth, various error messages,
too numerous to mention, may be inserted into the log file.
Do not be fooled if an error message is followed by another message
which is reassuring.  Any error message signals that something
has gone wrong and should be investigated.
.SH FILES
The names of the input and output files are discussed in the DESCRIPTION
section above.  Several "hidden" files and a
log file are also created in the directory from which the user invoked one of
the \fBml\fR, \fBem\fR, or \fBfbp\fR commands.
The names of the hidden files
are .emission, .hpiter1, .hpiter2, ... , .hpiter7, .pett_recon, .randoms, .survprob1, .survprob2, ... , .survprob7.
The .pett_recon file contains the individual shell commands that
are executed to compute the reconstructions requested by the user.
All of the hidden files except .pett_recon
are automatically
deleted when they are no longer needed.
The log file, named logfile, should be checked for error
and status messages.  Do not start another reconstruction until the
last line in the log file says that all the studies have been completed.
.SH SEE ALSO
See also \fBml\fR(1), \fBfbp\fR(1), \fBmlmany\fR(1)
.sp
More extensive documentation is available as Biomedical
Computer Laboratory Working Note No. 99, "User's Guide to
Maximum-Likelihood Image Reconstruction for PETT VI,"
by David G. Politte, Gerald C. Johns, and Tom O. Videen.
.SH BUGS
An error can occur when input-file names do not follow a regular
pattern because they have been altered to fit within the constraints
of file names on the Concurrent computers running OS/32.
For example,
if there are 10 water studies for patient 2042, the emission-data files
might be named P2042HO1.E, P2042HO2.E, ... , P2042H10.E.  The problem
is that the "HO" in the last file name has been shortened to "H" because
the study number, "10",
now requires two characters instead of one, and only eight characters
are available in the first part of the file name.
Choosing the \fBcompound\fR and \fBstudies\fR arguments to be \fBall\fR
and \fBall\fR will work in this situation, however.
.SH AUTHORS
David G. Politte and Gerald C. Johns
