.TH mlmany 1 "11/27/91" "Institute for Biomedical Computing"
.SH NAME
\fBmlmany\fR - Reconstruct PETT VI
data using a maximum-likelihood algorithm.
The \fBmlmany\fR command allows multiple studies to be reconstructed
under the control of a shell script.
.SH SYNTAX
The command line syntax is exactly the same as for the
\fBml\fR command.
.SH PURPOSE
\fBmlmany\fR
is simply a version of
\fBml\fR
which runs in the UNIX foreground.
The
\fBml\fR
command allows the reconstruction of multiple PETT VI studies
which have a common basename.
.br
\fBml\fR
works in the following way:
A program named
\fBpt6driver\fR
is started because
\fBml\fR
is simply a pointer to
\fBpt6driver\fR.
\fBpt6driver\fR
parses the command line and builds a script of
\fBcsh\fR
commands in a file named \fB.pett_recon\fR.
This file is then launched in the UNIX background, and control
returns immediately to the users command line.
If the user were to invoke another
\fBml\fR
command, files would be overwritten
and chaos would promptly ensue.
.br
\fBmlmany\fR
builds the same file of
\fBcsh\fR
commands in \fB.pett_recon\fR,
but runs the commands in the UNIX foreground which means
that all reconstruction actions are complete before control
returns to the next command in the shell script.
.SH USAGE
A file of commands should be prepared using one of the UNIX
editing utilities.
.br
Here is a sample:

.nf
	mlnew P2042 all all 2.87 12
	mlnew M328 all all 2.00 8
	mlnew P1956 HO 1 2.87 12
.fi

If this file is called
\fBsample\fR,
then the reconstruction would be started by a command
such as:
.br

		\fBcsh sample&\fR
.SH HOUSEKEEPING
\fBmlmany\fR
appends progress messages to the file
\fBlogfile\fR
in the directory where the
\fBcsh\fR
was invoked.
The
\fBlogfile\fR
thus continues to grow, and it is the users responsibility
to monitor the
\fBlogfile\fR
for error messages and to occasionally remove the
\fBlogfile\fR
to regain the disk space.
.SH AUTHORS
David G. Politte and Gerald C. Johns
