.TH AIRSHIFT 1 "23-OCT-96" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
airshift - modify AIR matrix with specified translations and rotations  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
.nf
airshift infile outfile -x xshift -y yshift -z zshift 
                        -xr xrot -yr yrot -zr zrot 
                        -c center
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program modifies an input AIR matrix by performing specified translations and/or rotations. A new AIR file is created, and the input file is left unchanged, unless the same name is used for the input and output files.

Only one translation or rotation must be specified. 

.nf
# Parameters:

  infile - input filename
  outfile - output filename

  xshift - translation along x axis in pixels (2.086 mm)
           pos. x: moves image to subject's right
           neg. x: moves image to subject's left

  yshift - translation along y axis in pixels (2.086 mm)
           pos. y: moves image anteriorly (toward subject's face)
           neg. y: moves image posteriorly (toward back of subject's head)

  zshift - translation along z axis in slice widths (3.125 mm)
           pos. z: moves image toward top of subject's head
           neg. z: moves image toward subject's feet

  xrot - rotation around x axis in degrees
           pos. xr: tilts head backward
           neg. xr: tilts head forward

  yrot - rotation around y axis in degrees
           pos. yr: tilts head to the left (top of head moves left)   
           neg. yr: tilts head to the right (top of head moves right)

  zrot - rotation around z axis in degrees
           pos. zr: turns the head to the right
           neg. zr: turns the head to the left

  center - center of rotation for any rotations specified
           Default center is 64.5, 64.5, 24
           
.fi


.SH EXAMPLES

airshift p4444.air p4444-1.air -x 1 -yr-10 -c 0 0 0
.SH AUTHOR

Jane Dunford-Shore
