.TH ALIGNIMG 1 "30-Sep-98" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
alignimg - align all images in an imagelist to a specified standard

.SH SYNOPSIS

alignimg prm imglist -s<num> -u -r

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program aligns all images in an imagelist to a standard image. That is, 
it creates an AIR file (*.air) for each image in the imagelist, using the AIR 
program alignlinear.

The standard image must be specified on the command-line using the -s flag.
Only the scan number should be specified. For example, if the ho2 scan will
be used as the standard, "-s2" should be typed.

If the optional -u flag is used, then unidirectional alignment is performed to the standard
image (default is bidirectional). This should be used when the standard image
is a resliced image which has zeros in slices which were not zeros in the original.

If the optional -r flag is used, then ratios are computed for the cost function
(default is to use least squares, which is preferable for similar images).

AIR files are named as follows:
.nf
	<species><subject id><tracer><scan no.>.air
e.g., p5432ho1.air
.fi

If an AIR file does not exist for a given image, it is created
in the local directory. If an AIR file (*.air) already exists for a given image 
(using the naming scheme above), the program prints an error message and continues 
processing the rest of the list. Existing AIR files are not overwritten. 

Alignimg will search for specified images (for the standard image specified on the 
command line, and for all of the images specified in the imagelist) in the following places
and in the following order:
.nf
\& - datapath (if defined in the parameter file)
\& - the local directory
\& - the image archive
.fi

If a specified image (standard or reslice) cannot be found, the program prints 
an error message and continues processing the rest of the list.

Thresholds for the standard and reslice images can be specified in the parameter file
using the parameters "t1:" and "t2:", which are specific to alignimg. "t1:"
is the threshold that will be used for the standard image during alignment. "t2:" is
the threshold that will be used for the reslice image. If t1 and t2 are not specified 
in the parameter file, default values of 400.0 will be used for both t1 and t2.

.SH SAMPLE PARAMETER FILE

The following parameters are recognized by alignimg:

.nf
t1: 312.0        # threshold for alignment - standard image
t2: 217          # threshold for alignment - reslice image
.fi

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
alignimg my.prm my.lst -s2
alignimg my.prm my.lst -s2 -u
alignimg my.prm my.lst -s2 -u -r
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
imagelist(5), prm(5), air(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Jane Dunford-Shore, September 1996.
