.TH ALIGNING_DYNAMIC 1 "05-Jul-2001" "Neuroimaging Lab"

The following commands will align all frames of a dynamic image.
In this example, all frames of the image p2818fd1.img will be aligned
to frame 2 (the first frame with significant activity).
The result is a set of coregistered,
resliced image frames named rp2818fd1.i to rp2818fd30.i, or, after
running merge_dynframes, a single dynamic file with all frames aligned.

.nf
1) Starting with the dynamic image (p2818fd1.img), a subdirectory
   Align_pet is created.

2) A brain mask (p2818fd_mask.img) is created by summing frames 1-20
   filtered (gauss 0.3) and thresholding at 30%. 
   Check this image with vidi to see that it is acceptable mask.
   Use the Edit menu to remove extraneous structures (in particular,
   the nose).
 
3) Check the dynamic image to align (first good frame & number of frames):
	imgfrms p2818fd1.img

   and, perhaps, view each frame to see where activity appears using
   vidi to select an appropriate reference frame for the alignment.
   (it is desirable to pick a frame with activity).
 
4) Create single-frame images in Analyze format for alignment:
	single_frames p2818fd1.img p2818fd1 i 1 30
 
5) Compute alignment matrices for all frames:
	align_dynamic p2818fd i p2818fd_mask.img 3to30 4 5 scale_953

   For EXACT HR or 961 images, use scale_961.
   For 953B monkey images, use scale_953m.
   For 953B 3D human images, use scale_953_3d.
   These default resampling AIR files are in /usr/local/npg/air.
   If your pixel or matix size differs from these standards, you will
   have to create your own (use load resize in Analyze, save the resampled
   image, alignlinear, invert_air). For details, see aligndyn(1).

6) Examine the computed realignments by plotting p2818fd_th4_g3.log.
   Continuous drift or highly variable plots would suggest trying a
   different smoothing or threshold.
	plot_aligndyn
 
7) You can examine the final value of the cost function for each fit,
   although this is probably not useful unless you see values which
   differ from typical ones for your type of image.
	more p2818fd_th4_g3.fit
 
8) Reslice all frames of interest:
	reslicedyn p2818fd .i 1to30 3 p2818fd1.img
 
9) Merge all resliced frames into a single image file:
	merge_dynframes rp2818fd .i 1to30 rp2818fd1.img
 
10) Clean up processing files:
	remove_dynfiles p2818fd _g3.i 3to30

In short, having created a mask, the following steps create a realigned
dynamic image:
	single_frames p2818fd1.img p2818fd1 i 1 30
	align_dynamic p2818fd i p2818fd_mask.img 3to30 4 5 scale_953
	reslicedyn p2818fd .i 1to30 3 p2818fd1.img
	merge_dynframes rp2818fd .i 1to30 rp2818fd1.img
	remove_dynfiles p2818fd _g3.i 3to30

.SH TESTING NOTES
.fi
In testing dynamic alignment with this method using images of humans
and monkeys varying the filter, threshold (for alignlinear), and the 
resampling matrices, I note the following:

1) Nearly always using a resampling matrix produces better fits than
not. However, there was not any significant improvement using a finer
resampling than those in the default AIR files which I have created.

2) The threshold used for alignlinear usually doesn't make much difference
(in the range of 1/3 to 1/20 of the peak) except for human FDG where
alignment was least variable for 1/4 to 1/5. However, you should always
check it! In some cases I have found most images to be rather insensitive
to the threshold but a couple will prove particularly sensitive.
Look at the plotted corrections (plot_aligndyn)and superimpose the sums of
early and late frames. Your eye can't validate the fit but it can
certainly detect errors as it is very sensitive to asymmetries 
(shifts and rotations).

3) The degree of smoothing in alignlinear is less predictable.
In general, you need sufficient smoothing to minimize significant noise 
differences between frames but not so much smoothing that late frames
(which may be predominantly a single structure) still have sufficient
3D shape differences to constrain the alignment.

4) I have not tested all possibilities since creating align_dynamic 
(which does the alignment somewhat differently from aligndyn and
was more accurate in one data set I have spent considerable time with)
but would recommend a threshold of approximately 25% (specified as 4
as in 1/4) and a blur of 5 (mm FWHM of 3d filter used in AIR).
Probably an ideal alignment would use more blurring in short, early frames
and less blurring in late frames but this would obviously be specific
for a particular PET acquisition.

For 16 human images of NMB alignment was excellent with blur=5 and
threshold=1/4 but 1 other subject was best aligned with blur=8.

.SH OLD FILTERS/THRESHOLDS for ALIGNDYN
For monkey NMB images (m711),
alignment was most accurate with higher resolution images (gauss 1.0).
This was only slightly different for gauss 0.5 but noticeably worse for
gauss 0.3.

For monkey FDOPA images (m710) alignment was most accurate with 
gauss 0.5 but significantly worse with gauss 1.0!

For both of these monkeys (whoses skulls were immobile during the scans)
mean computed shifts for all pixels within the brain of less than 2 mm
were achieved.

For human images of NMB (p2788) and FDG (p5355), alignment was least variable
with low resolution images (gauss 0.3) and was much worse in some cases for gauss 1.0.

As a general rule of thumb, I would use gauss 0.3 for humans and 0.5 for monkeys
and a threshold of approximately 25% for alignments.

.SH SEE ALSO
gauss(1), maskimg(1), imghdr(1), imgfrms(1), align_dynamic(1), aligndyn(1),
single_frames(1), singlefrm_gauss(1), plot_aligndyn(1), reslicedyn(1), remove_dynfiles(1),
merge_dynframes(1), air(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Oct 1999.
