.TH ALIGN_TR 1 "26 Apr 2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH Name
align_tr - coregister transmission images from same subject

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
align_tr tr1 tr2 mask1 mask2 airfile resample_air
    tr1   = reference transmission image (ECAT format)
    tr2   = reslice transmission image (ECAT format)
    mask1 = mask of tr1 used for fit and to estimate mean
            pixel shift
    mask2 = mask of tr2
    airfile = output air file
    resample_air = AIR file used to resample images prior
            to alignlinear

.SH DESCRIPTION
All input images and masks are in ECAT format. Masks may be created with:
.nf

    maskpct m800tr1.img tmp.img 50
    maskimg m800tr1.img tmp.img mask1.img 1
    maskslc mask1.img mask1.img 1to2
    maskslc mask1.img mask1.img 30to31
    rm tmp.img

.fi
and repeating for tr2.
This will threshold to 50% of maximum intensity (approximately tissue density on
low-noise images).

At least 2 end-planes should be masked out on both images using maskslc.
More importantly, be certain to mask sufficient slices on each
image so that ALL of the other image will have corresponding sampled points
within the mask. Typically, for a difference in z-offset, you will
mask additional slices at the top of one and the bottom of the other.
Failure to have sampled points within the mask for the corresponding
image will cause inaccurate corregistration!

The estimated mean voxel shift in X, Y and Z dimensions
are derived from the mean shift of all voxels within the first mask.

The resample_air file is an AIR file created to resample the input  image  into a different
pixel size in order to remove bias due to pixelization (see Andersson, 1998, and man
aligning_dynamic for more details). There are several standard resampling files which
have been created (all in /usr/local/npg/air) which have the corresponding inverse
transform to restore the pixel dimensions after reslicing.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
align_tr m824tr1.img m824tr2.img mask1.img mask2.img m824tr2_to_tr1 scale_953m

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Apr 2002
