.TH ANALYZE2IMG 1 "04-Aug-2008" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
analyze2img - convert ANALYZE files to ECAT 7 format

.SH SYNOPSIS
analyze2img ANALYZE_root ECAT_filename [stdimg frm# [v]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts 8-bit or 16-bit short integer or 32-bit floating point Analyze files.

Only the rootname for the input Analyze file is specified. However,
the complete output ECAT filename (with extension) should be used.

If a standard image and frame number (3rd and 4th parameters) are specified,
the output ECAT file will contain the header information from the standard
image. This is necessary if frame start time and duration are important
as the Analyze file contains none of this information.

NOTE: if decay-correction of dynamic frames is important, you must used
singleframe to isolate ECAT frames and analyze2img_decaycor to restore the
ECAT format.

If stdimg and frm are specified with no 5th parameter, the output image will have the same
voxel size as the standard image. However, if a 5th parameter (i.e., "v") is
passed in addition, then the output image will have the same voxel size
as the input Analyze image.

analyze2img reads a pair of  Analyze hdr and img files and creates an ECAT 7.0
image file.  Images will be re-oriented so that right brain is on the right and
slice 1 is the top of brain.  The output image will be padded or clipped so that
the slices are 128x128.  The number of slices will not be altered.

Effectively, running img2analyze followed by analyze2img should restore the
original image in ECAT version 7.0 format with much of the header information
missing, unless a standard image is used to read the info.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
analyze2img rap5000ho1 rp5000ho1.v
analyze2img rap5000ho1 rp5000ho1.v p5000ho1.v 2
analyze2img rap5000ho1 rp5000ho1.v p5000ho1.v 2 v

.fi
In the first and third examples, the new image (p5000ho1.v) will have
the voxel size of the Analyze image (rap5000ho1.img). In the second
example, the new image (p5000ho1.v) will have the voxel size of the
standard image (rp5000ho1.).

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
analyze2img_decaycor, img2analyze, analyze2ecat6, spm2img, img2spm, analyze, 
singleframe, merge_dynframes_decaycor

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 2000.
