.TH ARCHIVE_961 1 "09-Sep-99" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
archive_961 - set of routines for archive 961 data sets to CD

.SH ARCHIVING to CD
Procedure for archiving ECAT EXACT HR/961 data files to CD.

.nf
On EXACTHR:

1) Reconstruct all images for subject (i.e., p5000).

2) get_arcfiles p5000
	Creates the directory /home/ecat7/archive/p5000;
	Creates lists of ACS and UNIX files (ACS.files, UNIX.files);
	Creates composite list of all ACS and UNIX files with file size;
	Computes size of uncompressed files and appends to list;
	Copies all ACS files for p5000 using getacs;
	Copies all /home/data/p5000 files;
	Compares sizes of files with original sizes;
	Copies all /data/nnicu/raw/crt/p5000 files;
	Compresses all files
	Computes size of compressed files and appends to list.

On PETSUN32:

4) get_hrfiles p5000 passwd
	Copies (ftp) from exacthr all files in /home/ecat7/archive/p5000
	to /data/recon/exact/p5000;

5) check_hrfiles p5000
	Reads all files from /data/recon/exact/p5000/p5000.files;
	Checks for presence of each data file;
	Computes total size of these compressed files and compares this
	to the total size in the file p5000.files.

6) Move files to a path with 400-660 MB (checking with du -sk).
	(max is approx 660000 kbytes)

7) Copy data in this path to a CD:
	%gear
	CD> newvol P5000PET   (74 min, ISO)
	CD> cp /data/recon/exact/p5000/* .
	CD> cp /data/recon/exact/p5001/* .   (if other data sets)
	CD> writecd P5000PET
	CD> exit

On EXACTHR:

8) label_arcfiles p5000 P5000PET
	Reads ACS.files and UNIX.files from /home/ecat7/archive/p5000;
	Updates database for each file inserting the label, P5000PET,
	and the archive device to optical for the first archive location;

9) free_arcfiles p5000
	Reads ACS.files and UNIX.files from /home/ecat7/archive/p5000;
	Updates database for each file removing the ACS or Unix name;
	Deletes the file from the ACS or Unix location.

.SH RETRIEVING from CD
Procedure for retrieving ECAT EXACT HR/961 data files from CD.

On EXACTHR:

1) Create a directory on the Sun, e.g., /home/data/p5000,
	and copy the files from the CD to this directory.
	All of the following commands are executed in this path.

2) uncompress p5000*.Z

3) restore_arcfiles p5000
	Identifies all files matching p5000*.? in the current path;
	Updates database inserting the Unix name with current path.
	
After you have finished working with the recovered data:

4) free_datafiles p5000
	Identifies all files matching p5000*.? in the current path;
	Updates the database removing the Unix name; 
	Deletes the files.

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
get_arcfiles, label_arcfiles, free_arcfiles, restore_arcfiles, getacs,
rfaDelete, rfaDir, updateDb, get_hrfiles, check_hrfiles

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Sep 1999.
