.TH BETACAL 1 "28-Feb-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
betacal - computes beta probe calibration factor
.SH SYNOPSIS
betacal

.SH NOTE
betacal has been replaced by betawel

.SH DESCRIPTION
Betacal runs interactively to compute the calibration factor to
convert beta probe (automated blood sampler) counts to well counter counts.
One input file is required (beta probe .crt file acquired with O-15 or C-11 sample)
and a second will be created if it does not exist (.wel file).
Note: crt files created by the new PC (Feb 25, 2002) have the extension .crv.

The "BETA PROBE TO WELL COUNTER CONVERSION FACTOR" is necessary to
processing all other automate blood sampler files (crt/crv) with betadcv.
This number should be written to the paper with the well counter
calibration samples.

.SH SAMPLE INPUT TO PROMPTS
When a .wel file already exists and you wish to determine the
beta probe-to-well counter conversion factor (called the
well counter conversion multiplier in makedta):

.nf
Enter beta probe calibration filename (.crt or .crv)
	p5999cal.crv	(enter filename with extension)
Bin width of crv file (sec/bin)?  <    1.00000>
	1		(should read default value from crt file)
Skip 2 points for 961 calibration files after p5999 (25 Feb 2002)

.fi
[The new PC on the blood sample save erroneous values for the first 2 time
bins and should be skipped to get an accurate estimate of the halflife
and an accurate calibration factor. Skipping should make no difference on
the older crt files.]
.nf

Skip first 2 points? <N>
	y
Radionuclide? <>
	o		(O or C)
Well counter counting period (sec)?  <  0.>
	12		(953B should use 10 sec samples)
Well counter data filename to read (enter return if no well data file exists)
	p5999.wel
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	<return>
Well counter data filename to save
	<return>
 ...
BETA PROBE TO WELL COUNTER CONVERSION FACTOR   10.7652

.fi
If the wel file does not exist, you can create one by changing the responses to the last 3 prompts:
.nf
	
Well counter data filename to read (enter return if no well data file exists)
	<return>
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	1,.10,.61,1,28,209361
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	2,.11,.58,1,01,238241
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	3,.08,.67,1,57,207975
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	4,.13,.77,0,32,332775
ENTER line, dry, wet, minutes, seconds, counts
	<return>
Well counter data filename to save
	p5999.wel
 ...
BETA PROBE TO WELL COUNTER CONVERSION FACTOR   10.7652

.SH SEE ALSO
betawel(1), betadcv(1)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Avi Snyder
Documentation by TOV
