.TH PET 1 "28-Feb-97" "Neuroimaging Lab"
 
.SH NAME
capp - CTI's Clinical Applications Programming Package

.SH SYNOPSIS
capp_start -ir

.SH DESCRIPTION
See ECAT 7.0 Software manual for details on individual applications.

Capp requires the file $HOME/capp.defaults for fonts, color and
especially to define the directories in which it looks for files.
If capp.defaults is not found, your files will not be found.

Capp will create the files $HOME/capp.db and $HOME/bad_file_list.

Capp requires an IDL license. The "-ir" parameters will request a runtime license.

.SH Additions to .sol.cshrc or .sun.cshrc file
.nf
setenv IDL_DIR /usr/local/pkg/idl
source $IDL_DIR/bin/idl_setup
setenv CAPP_DIR /usr/local/npg/capp
source $CAPP_DIR/capp_setup
.fi

.SH Sample capp.defaults file
The following should be entered in the file "capp.defaults" in your home directory.
Change the paths /data/mystuff and /home/npggw/tom to your data paths and add additional
paths if necessary.

.nf
System.ImageDirectories:\\
/data/mystuff, Data1, \\
/home/npggw/tom, Home

System.Fonts:\\
SMALL_BOLD,-adobe-courier-bold-r-normal--10-100-75-75-m-60-iso8859-1,\\
BOLD,-*-helvetica-bold-r-normal--*-120-75-75-*-*-*-*,\\
LARGE_BOLD,-*-helvetica-bold-r-normal--*-140-75-75-*-*-*-*,\\
HUGE_BOLD,-*-helvetica-bold-r-normal--*-180-75-75-*-*-*-*,\\
MONO,-*-courier-bold-r-*--*-120-75-75-*-*-*-*,\\
LARGE_MONO,-*-courier-bold-r-*--*-140-75-75-*-*-*-*

System.Colors.Min:120
System.Colors.Max:256
System.Colors.Reserve:20
System.ColorTableFile:$CAPP_DIR/color_tables/new_tables.tbl
System.SimultaneousColorTables:3
System.RaimaDatabase:False
System.DatabaseView:FILE_NAME,FILE_TYPE,PATIENT_NAME,MODALITY
System.IdlTool:False

