.TH COSS 1 "13-Feb-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
coss - procedure for processing COSS PET data

.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Define basic parameters in your shell substituting the
appropriate number for subject ID and DPATH.

.nf
.ta 0.3i 0.7i 1.5i
	set DPATH = /home/npggw/tom/temp
	set ID  = 60606
	set SCN = 1
	set HO  = ho$SCN
	set OO  = oo$SCN
	set OH  = oh$SCN
	set MSK = mask$SCN
	set PID = p$ID
	set RPATH = $DPATH/Raw

.fi 
Create the data directory and raw subdirectory.
Copy the original images to the raw directory.
If the image files are not in ECAT format, convert them.
See "man file_conversion" for help with this.

.fi
Maximize your shell window for the following.
Record the site info, file names, and frames.

.nf
	chkcoss v

.fi
Now, return to the parent direction.
Using the first and last frame numbers, create a composite,
filtered water image to use to position the brain VOI.

.nf
	cd $DPATH
	set FRM1 = 1
	set FRM2 = 60
	cd $DPATH
	sumimgframes $RPATH/$PID$HO.v $PID${HO}_sum.v $FRM1 $FRM2
	gauss $PID${HO}_sum.v 0.3

.fi
View this image in vidi to determine the
VOI coordinates for time-activity curve.
Use the transverse orientation for X and sagittal for Y and Z.
The VOI will be 8 cm in diameter.

.nf
	set X = 61
	set Y = 81
	set Z = 32

.fi
Plot the time-activity curve for the water, select the initial
frame of the 40-sec integration (first point clearly above baseline).
Then create the filtered, summed image.

.nf
	sumcoss $RPATH p $ID ho $SCN v $X $Y $Z

Do the same for the oxygen.

	sumcoss $RPATH p $ID oo $SCN v $X $Y $Z

Coregister the oxygen to the water.

	Align_oo2ho $PID $HO $OO v

Coregister the water to the standard HO image
(/usr/local/npg/lib/t88/meanpet.t88).
If this fails, see "man manualreslice_guide" for instructions
on doing it manually.

	Align_ho2ref $PID $HO $OO v

Compute the OO/HO image.

	ohratio $PID${OO}_g3.t88 $PID${HO}_g3.t88 $PID${OH}_g3.t88 $PID$MSK.t88

.fi
View all 3 final images (ho1_g3.t88, oo1_g3.t88 and oh1_g3.t88) using
the Viewer menu in vidi. Set the display to 8 columns x 5 rows and
start the display with plane 6. All MCA VOIs lie between planes 16-42.
Note that atlas origin is at z=38. Also, intensity scaling is specified
by Scale in the main vidi menu.

.fi
Get the MCA VOIs. Use the atlas tracings (retrieve them using Lightning FAX) to eliminate
any VOIs lying in areas of old infarcts. Use vidi to check the positioning
of all VOIs in the atlas image.

.nf
cp /home/npggw/tom/COSS/Reference/t88newmca.voi ${PID}mca.voi
chmod u+w ${PID}mca.voi

	vidi
		Load	ho1_g3.t88
		Peaks	mca.voi

.fi
Compute the mean VOI values and the Right/Left ratio.

.nf
	voicoss $PID${OO}_g3.t88 $PID${HO}_g3.t88 ${PID}mca.voi $PID${OH}_mca.rgt

.fi
Check the RGT file to see that all regional values are reasonable.
Note the Right/Left ratio and whether or not it exceeds the cutoff range.
Print the RGT file.

.nf
	prvics $PID${OH}_mca.rgt 10 4
	powers

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 2002.
