.TH CT2ANALYZE 1 "12-Dec-96" "Neuro PET Group"

.SH NAME
ct2analyze - convert CT from SSPLUS to Analyze format and create Interfile header
  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ct2analyze firstfile lastfile outprefix [-n]

.SH OPERANDS
.B 
.nf
firstfile - first file number, e.g. "2" or "00002"
lastfile  - last file number, e.g., "45" or "00045"
outprefix - prefix for naming output file, e.g., "p5064"

.fi
Note: Use ctheader to determine which slice(s) are localizers, as you will probably want to exclude these.

.SH OPTIONS
.nf
-n: Do not reorient slices (do not correct for gantry tilt)

.fi
Note: If this option is chosen, no row-shifting and interpolation will occur within slices, and the output header value for slice separation (zpix) will not be corrected either. In sagittal view, head will look stretched from front to back and compressed from top to bottom. In coronal view, head may appear normal from side to side, but will be compressed from top to bottom. How misshapen the head will appear will depend on the gantry tilt, which has been between 0 and -25 degrees for the SSPLUS scans we have seen. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads multiple, sequential CT images of the Siemens Somatom Plus file format. Filenames are assumed to have extension "ima" and to contain exactly 5 digits, and only 5 digits, not including the extension, e.g., 00001.ima, 00002.ima, 00003.ima,..., 00042.ima. Only the integer values of the first and last file need to be specified, e.g., "1" and "42". Leading zeros will be prepended. 

.nf
Pixel values
------------
.fi
Pixel maximum and minimum values in output headers are empirical, and tend to be 0 for the minimum and approximately 2700 for the maximum. The pixel max and min can be edited in Analyze by selecting the Header Edit option. A range of approximately 1000 - 1100 seems to work well for viewing the brain. The average pixel value for the skull is approximately 1800.

.SH NOTES
.nf
Siemens Somatom Plus File Format
--------------------------------
.fi
We have examined Siemens Somatom Plus CT files from the following time period: Nov., 1993 through the present (April, 1996). The file size and format appears to have been consistent during this time period, but we don't know for sure that it was the same before this time period, or that it will remain the same. Currently (April, 1996), the Siemens Somatom Plus image files are 528384 bytes in size. The first 4096 bytes contain the header, and the following 524288 bytes contain the image (pixel) data. 

.nf
Corrections for Gantry Tilt
---------------------------
.fi
The gantry of the SSPLUS CT scanner has a tilt range of -25 to +25 degrees. For the brain scans we have examined, the tilt range has been between 0 and -25 degrees. 
.nf


             patient          |  /-25 degree tilt
        feet         head __  | /
        *****************(__) |/
      ________________________/_________scanner bed
                             /|
                            / |
                           /  | 0 degree tilt


slice separation:
   slice separation = (table increment) x cos(abs(tilt))
   e.g., if the table moves 3 mm between slices:
   (3.0 mm) x cos(25 degrees) = 2.718 mm separation

AP shift for a given slice (0..end):
   shift in mm = slice# x (table increment) x sin(-tilt)
   A positive shift means slices are shifted posteriorly.
   e.g., for the second slice:
   1 x (3.0 mm) x sin(25 degrees) = 1.2 mm shift 
    
.SH SEE ALSO
ctheader(1), cttilt(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Jane Dunford-Shore, 1996.
