.TH CTHEADER 1 "26-FEB-97" "Neuro PET Group"
.SH NAME
ctheader - print header information from CT image file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctheader [ -v ] firstfile# lastfile#

.SH DESCRIPTION
 
ctheader prints selected header information from Siemens Somatom Plus CT images to stdout. If the -v option is specified, it prints detailed information for each file specified. Otherwise, it prints only a summary for the set of files specified. The summary report includes the following information:

.nf
\& - Patient name and birthdate
\& - Mismatched files (if any) by patient name and birth
\& - Exam date and time
\& - Mismatched files (if any) by exam date and time
\& - Scout (localizer) filenames or "None"
.fi

This program is intended to be run prior to running ct2analyze. Its main purpose is to show which image files are localizers (scouts; topograms), as investigators may not want to include these localizers when they run ct2analyze. Usually file 00001.ima is a localizer, but sometimes file 00002.ima is a localizer also.

In addition, ctheader checks to see that all images specified are from the same patient and the same date. It does this by extracting the patient name and birth date, and study date/time, from the first file specified, and then comparing this to each of the other files. The patient name and birth date, and study date/time, from the first file appear in the printout as the "correct" values. Any values from other files that do not match these are considered to be in error. For instance, if the study date and time in file 00003.ima did not match that in the first file specified (00001.ima, most likely), the following would appear on the screen:

Study date and time: 19-OCT-1995 13:44                    
   --->Error: 00003.ima doesn't match: 25-SEP-1995 13:52

This program reads multiple, sequential CT images of the Siemens Somatom Plus file format. Filenames are assumed to have extension "ima" and to contain exactly 5 digits, and only 5 digits, not including the extension, e.g., 00001.ima, 00002.ima, 00003.ima,..., 00042.ima. Only the integer values of the first and last file need to be specified, e.g., "1" and "42". Leading zeros are optional.

.SH OPERANDS
firstfile#: Integer value from filename of first image file in desired set -- e.g., if first file is 00001.ima, first num would be "1". Leading zeros are also accepted ("001", "0001", etc.).

lastfile#: Integer value from filename of last image file in desired set -- e.g., if last file is 00042.ima, last num would be 42". Leading zeros are also accepted ("042", "0042", etc.).

.SH OPTIONS
-v: (verbose) Print detailed header information for each file specified. If -v option is not specified, only summary is printed (pt. name, birthdate, and exam date and time). 

# Fields included in detailed reports (-v option)

.LP
.nf
Lastname, Firstname   DOB          Institution
Scan id                            Scanner
Image no. (unique -- 00001.ima = 1, etc.)
Scan time (for this particular slice)
Scan no. (may not correspond to image no.)
TP = axial table position (mm)
TI = exposure time (sec)
kV = generator voltage (kilovolts)
SL = slice thickness (mm)
mAs = exposure dose = tube current (milliamps) x time (sec)
GT = gantry tilt (degrees) - see "Gantry Tilt" below
ZO = zoom
CE = center of image in field, x axis (mm)
     center of image in field, y axis (mm)
"TH 7502" or "AH 7572" -  meaning not yet known
    'A' probably = axial
    'T' probably = topogram (scout)
    'H' = head?
"H/SP", etc. = patient orientation
    'H'=head-first, 'F'=feet-first
    'SP'=supine, 'PR'=prone, 
    'RL'?=right lateral decubitus, 'LL'?=left lateral decubitus
Scan date as DD-MMM-YYYY      Comments
.fi

.SH FILES
.nf
Input files:  
\&   *.ima (CT image files from Siemens Somatom Plus)
Output files:
\&   *.img (Analyze image file)
\&   *.hdr (Analyze header file)
\&   *.ifh (Interfile header file)

.SH NOTES
.nf
Date formats
------------
.fi
Exam date and patient birthdate in summary report represent whatever was typed in by the technician at the time of the exam. Date formats appear to vary. For instance, 10-7-95 may represent October 7, 1995, or it may represent July 10, 1995. Common formats are MM-DD-YY, DD-MM-YY, and YY-MM-DD. Although date formats are not consistent between patients/exams, they are consistent within a given exam since the same character string is repeated in each header for the exam. Therefore, the date string can be used to verify that images belong together (are from the same patient and date), even if the meaning of the date string is not clear. If the exam date in the ctheader summary looks amibiguous, use the -v option to look at detailed info. for one or more slices. The date reported for each individual slice comes from a scanner-generated date/time, and is printed in the format DD-MMM-YYYY. If the patient birthdate is ambiguous, other medical records for the patient will have to be consulted.

.nf
Siemens Somatom Plus image file format
--------------------------------------
.fi
We have examined Siemens Somatom Plus CT files from the following time period: Nov., 1993 through the present (April, 1996). The file size and format appears to have been consistent during this time period, but we don't know for sure that it was the same before this time period, or that it will remain the same. Currently (April, 1996), the Siemens Somatom Plus image files are 528384 bytes in size. The first 4096 bytes contain the header, and the following 524288 bytes contain the image (pixel) data.
.SH SEE ALSO
ct2analyze(1), ctcheck(1), ctdup(1), cttabinc(1), cttable(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Jane Dunford-Shore, 1996.
