.TH CTWATCH 1 "3-FEB-97" "Neuro PET Group"

.SH NAME
ctwatch - monitor CT scans; download specified scan
  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctwatch [-s <searchstring>...] [-d <outdir>]

.SH OPERANDS

.SH OPTIONS
.nf
-s <searchstring>: string(s) for locating a particular CT; 
                   e.g., patient last name
-d <outdir>: local directory for downloading files to
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This script displays CT scan information as scans come online, searches for a specified scan, and
downloads this scan data after the specified scan is finished. The script must be run from npggw, the DEC gateway (machine on which dni software is installed). It is meant to run for long periods of time (hours, for instance) in its own shell, in order to watch for a given scan or scans for downloading. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH NOTES
Script attempts to print directory listing each time a new directory appears online. If error such as "Connection timed out" occurs on an attempt to print info. for a particular dir., another attempt will be made to access and print info. for this dir. on the next go-round. This means that some dirs. may appear out of chronological order.

.SH ERROR MESSAGES
     
.nf
plusb"radresearch"::dub1:[P00022715]*.ima: Connection timed out
# Connection timed out while attempting to count *.ima's.
# There will be a value missing in the "Files" column for this pt.

plusb"radresearch"::dub1:[000000]: Connection timed out
# Connection timed out while attempting to get new DEC dir. listing.
# Probably not a problem as this attempt is made every few seconds
# following the initial directory listing.

.SH SEE ALSO
ctdir(1), ctget(1), ctname(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Jane Dunford-Shore, 1997.
