.TH DCM2ANALYZE 1 "02-Jul-2007" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
dcm2analyze - Converts MR/CT DICOM files to Analyze and Interfile format (img, hdr,
ifh files).

.SH SYNOPSIS
dcm2analyze first last output_root [flag]

Setting flag to 'm' identifies a prone monkey whose head is facing forward
rather than down. Without passing a flag, the head orientation is assumed
to be correctly identified by the DICOM header.

Setting flag to 't' identifies a prone monkey whose head is facing forward
rather than down in the Trio. This is an untested option used once for Al.
In particular, verify that right/left is what you expect. Someone seems to have dropped the ball
on DICOM 'standards' for these images.

.SH DESCRIPTION
dcm2analyze reads multiple, sequential MR and CT image files in DICOM format, reorients them to the 3D
ordering expected by Analyze and writes a single image file comprising all slices
plus an Analyze header file (.hdr) and an Interfile Format header file (.ifh).  It does not
change the input data except for reorientation; specifically, it does not
generate voxels with uniform, cubic dimensions.

Input DICOM files must be named with a 5 digit  number  followed
by the extension .dcm; i.e., "00001.dcm". The program
"dcm_rename" converts Siemens DICOM filenames to names with this format.

The Analyze orientation will match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).

Monkeys scanned "prone" but with head facing forward may be reoriented
by passing an "m" as the third parameter.

Use dcmscans to determine the file numbers corresponding to the MR sequence.

CT files will automatically have 1020 subtracted to create images in Hounsfield units.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
dcm2analyze 4 131 p5000_mprage
dcm2analyze 4 72 stretch_mprage m
dcm2analyze 2292 2467 t2_al_sum t

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
dcm for programs for DICOM format

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen

