.TH DCM_CTHEADER 1 "06-Dec-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
dcm_ctheader - prints DICOM CT header info

.SH SYNOPSIS
dcm_ctheader <firstfile> <lastfile> [-tv] [-all] [-debug ]

.nf
where:
	-t           Print list of table positions.
	-v (verbose) Print detailed header info. for each file.
	-all         Print all implemented DICOM field names and values
	             as they appear in DICOM file (ascii - no conversion
	             from yyyymmdd to mm/dd/yy, for instance)

.SH DESCRIPTION
dcm_ctheader reads the specified DICOM files and displays header info.

The non-verbose summary includes the study date, time, and subject name.
It identifies any localizer scans and duplicate bed positions.

The verbose summary includes the scanner id, table position, gantry
tilt, beam kv and mA, plus other information.

The conversion program dcm_ct2analyze requires a continuous set
of file numbers with no duplicate positions or localizer scans.
If duplicates are removed or deleted, sequential numbering can be
restored with dcm_reorder.

.fi
Input DICOM files must be named with a 5 digit number followed
by the extension .dcm; i.e., "00001.dcm". The program "dcm_rename"
will convert DICOM filenames to names with this format.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
dcm_ctheader 1 42        [Summary only for files 00001.dcm - 00042.dcm]
dcm_ctheader -v 3 6      [Detailed info for files 00003.dcm - 00006.dcm]
dcm_ctheader -v 1 1      [Detailed info. for file 00001.dcm only]
dcm_ctheader -vt 2 47    [Include list of table positions]
dcm_ctheader -debug 3 45 [Include debugging info.]
dcm_ctheader -a 3 44     [Print all DICOM field values, in original format]

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
dcm for programs for DICOM format

.SH AUTHOR
Jane Dunford-Shore

