.TH DICOM 1 "09-Apr-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
dicom - routines for manipulating DICOM image files

.SH DESCRIPTION
All of these routines should have their own man pages. This summary
is intended as an aid to finding the the correct routine.

.SH FILE NAMES
Files retrieved from PACS the naming convention:

	1.3.12.2.1107.5.2.4.7602.20020109114334000002004

.fi
where the initial fields are common for a study
while the last field (following the last dot) identifies:
.nf
	20020109	= date (yyyymmdd)
	114334	= time (hhmmss)
	000	= ?
	002	= series number
	004	= image number

.fi
Note that some CT PACS images have a different naming convention
(an extra field at the end, i.e., ".4").

Files sent from East Bldg MR scanners have names:

	.MR..2.1.2001.8.21.14.30.40.203000.660978.IMA

.nf
where fields (separated by dots) represent:
	MR	= modality
	2	= series number
	1	= image number
	2001	= year of acquisition
	8	= month
	21	= day
	14	= hour
	30	= min
	40	= sec
	203000	= time of transfer
	660978	= time of transfer
	(last 2 numbers are assigned at time of network transfer)

.fi
We convert the all of these names to a 5-digit number representing the
order of the image in the acquisition sequence, i.e, 00001.dcm.

.SH DECIPHERING A DIRECTORY OF DICOM FILES
If you recognize the file type from the name, you can view a summary
of all files using either pacscans (for PACS files) or mrscans
(for MR files). If you have no clue, use dcmscans. All 3 of these
will save the summary in a file named Scans.lst (which is appended
every time you run one of these commands). If the file exists,
just check it with cat or more. Note that MR studies will have
an acquisition type in the summary whereas CT studies will not.
CT scans with the different naming convention (see above) won't
display with pacscans; rename them and then get the list.

The complete contents of any DICOM header may be viewed using the
command dcm_dump_file. The value of a particular element (specified
by two 4-digit numbers) is saved to a file with dcm_dump_element.

The contents of CT DICOM headers are displayed with dcm_ct2analyze.

.SH WORKING WITH DICOM FILES
The first step should be to archive the original files.

Next, convert all filenames for one subject's scan
session to the 5-digit format with the command dcm_rename.

Then, determine if all file numbers for a given sequence are in
the correct order. 
Use the command dcm_order to display the file number and slice
position for either CT or MR images.

Sometimes a CT data set will have a duplicate of some table position.
One of the 2 files should be deleted. Since this leaves a gap in
the sequence, use the command dcm_reorder to restore a continuous
sequence (this will rename some of the files).

Sometimes a MR data set will have slices out of order. In particular,
3D TSE sequences are collected in 2 scans with multiple interleaving
slabs. These must be arranged in order
by copying all relevant files to a subdirectory, renumbering them
with dcm_reorder (should the 2 sequences not be saved sequentially),
and then reordering this set by slice number using dcm_slice_reorder.

After any reordering, check the new order with dcm_order.

Finally, convert each sequence (multiple files) to the Analyze/IFH
format. For MR images, use dcm2analyze; for CT images,
use dcm_ct2analyze. Each conversion will specify the first and
last numbers of the sequence. Three output files are created:
image data (.img), Analyze header (.hdr), and Interfile header (.ifh).

Last but not least, view the converted image with vidi looking
at each orientation. Check for proper orientation, continuous
slices, and artifacts. If something is missing or there are
prominent artifacts, the sooner it is caught the better.
Note that CT images that will be used for partial volume correction
are converted by dcm_ct2analyze using the "-n" flag. This disables
the correction for gantry tilt (thereby preventing interpolation)
but makes the sagittal views look distorted (especially if there
was substantial gantry tilt).

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
see man dcm

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen
