.TH ECATHDR 1 "05-Oct-93" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
ecathdr - read the header of an ECAT file and write a summary of information  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ecathdr filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
Ecathdr reads the main header and subheader for the first slice (not necessarily plane 1) of an ECAT image file.  It extracts information relevant to the type of reconstruction and filters and writes a summary.

The information includes:  scan date, wobble/stationary acquisition, version of software used for reconstruction (which affects the pie factor), scatter-correction, pixel size, filter code, cutoff, isotope, and ECAT calibration factor (which is also a consideration for computing the correct pie factor), and the comment field (which contains SF if the image has been scaled by scaleimage).

Certain programs which create images will write the program version (using ident to get the RCS information) and the date+time when the image file was created.  This information will be displayed by ecathdr.  (see t88mean(1))

If you attempt to run ecathdr on a non-ECAT file, you will get a core dump :-(

	Segmentation fault (core dumped)

.SH LOCAL USE of MAIN_HEADER FIELDS

Three fields in the main_header (see matrix.h) are being used to store
special information.

.I
physician_name 
is used by some programs to store information about what program created
the file.  This field will contain a string of the form:
"Created with: t88mean.c,v 1.78 1993/10/04 16:"  Note that the time will be
truncated, depending on the length of the field.  However, the version number of
the program should be unique (see ident(1)).

.I
operator_name 
is used to store the time at which a file was created.  This date stamp
should match the date stamp at the beginning of the associated rec file  (see rec(5)).
I.e., "Date: Mon Oct 4 15:34:24 CDT 1993"

.I
study_description 
is used to store the following information about processing
(usually in this order):

whether or not the x-pixel order has been flipped:
if "X:r" appears in the study_description, then it is flipped.
(see libpetutil(1)).

a scale factor inserted by scaleimage (see scaleimage(1)):
"SF: real number".

processed with a 3-D filter:  i.e., "3D Gauss" or "3D Butterworth"
(see gauss(1) and butterworth(1)).

string indicating that a file was created from a PETT VI image
(see ecat2pett6(1)):  "Created from PETT VI image"
 
.SH SEE ALSO
scanhdr(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Tom O. Videen: 1993.
