.TH FDOPA 1 "21 Nov 2001" "Neuroimaging Lab"

This is an outline of command-list files created for processing an fdopa study
but they should be generic enough to use with other studies (nmb).
The general scheme is to coregister all frames of a dynamic PET image,
to coregister an anatomical MR image to the PET, and to use VOIs
drawn on the original MR image to extract values from the PET image.

The command-list files are located in the directory /usr/local/npg/fdopa.
These are basically generic but require specific information about
each study to be substituted for the particular subject. They are intended
to be used with copy-and-paste interaction, permitting changes where
relevant and allowing you to seek man pages on particular commands 
for which you need further documentation. Each command-list contains comments
which should make it clear what is happening at each step.

It is critical to check the processing as it progresses. Coregistration
with AIR is usually reliable, particularly when a reasonable initialization
file is provided. It can go awry and with many other programs involved
which are often altered without consideration of every potential error,
the checks for proper alignment are the only guarantee of the outcome.

These processing command lists contain assumptions about the directory tree
in which the data are organized, however, you should be able to change
the obvious commands to handle a different structure. I strongly recommend
running each major step in a separate subdirectory, and the command lists have
been constructed to create these using standard names. This isolates
critical images, AIR files and log files which should facilitate tracing
errors and reprocessing. Images used for checking alignment are left
in the subdirectories where another investigator can check them.

It would be an excellent idea to copy each command list
file to the processing directory where it can be edited and saved as
a permanent record of the commands that were actually used for each
subject (add your name and date to the file). 

.nf
Processing Initial Dynamic Study    Script or Command     Directory
--------------------------------    ------------------    ----------
1) Align frames of dynamic image:   Fdopa_align_dynamic   (Align_dynpet)
2) Align MPRAGE image to PET:       Fdopa_align_MR_to_PET (Align_MR)
3) Draw VOIs on MPRAGE image:       vidivoi               (under mri)
4) Remove post left&right putamen:  vidi                     "   "
5) Create combined object file:     combine_striatum         "   "
6) Compute values w/MRI-drawn VOIs: Fdopa_voi             (VOI_analysis)

Processing Followup Study (same subject, different date)
---------------------------------
1) Align frames of dynamic image:   Fdopa_align_dynamic   (Align_dynpet)
2) Align frames to earlier study:   Fdopa_align_followup  (Align_followup)
3) Compute values w/MRI-drawn VOIs: Fdopa_voi_followup    (VOI_analysis)

.SH NOTES
.fi
It is sometimes useful to see a data set on which these commands were
actually used. As of 11-Nov-2001 these may be found in subdirectories
under:

Existing files in a subdirectory named Align should be checked for
proper Right/Left orientation and for reasonable alignment!

.nf
Initial study:  /data/petsun7/human1/fdopa/p2818/pet
Followup study: /data/petsun7/human1/fdopa/p2922/pet

.SH SEE ALSO
vidivoi(1), combine_striatum(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Nov 2001
