.TH FILTERIMG 1 "27-Sep-96" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
filterimg - filters all images in an imagelist

.SH SYNOPSIS

filterimg prm lst

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program checks all images in an imagelist.  If a filtered image does
not exist, it will be created in the local directory using either gauss
or butterworth filters.  If an image cannot be found or created, the
program prints and ERROR message and continues processing the rest of the list.

The program may be used to check the existence of all files in a list.
For example, if the parameter \fIimgfilter\fP is not defined in the prm list
or set to the reconstruction filter, the program will search for all the unfiltered images.
In this sense, it is a substitute for chklist except that it does not
look for sxr files.  This option may be used for PETT VI images, for
which additional filters are unnecessary.

The program will search in the datapath (if defined), the local directory,
and the archive for image files (in this order). The execution is significantly
faster when checking a list of existing filtered images.

.SH SAMPLE PARAMETER FILE

The following parameters are recognized by filterimg:

.nf
datapath:      
species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      img                         #v
scanner:        953                         #961, pett6
acquisition:    3d                          #wobble, stationary, low_resolution (etc)
reconstruction: 3d_filtered_backprojection  #filtered_backprojection (etc)
recfilter:      ramp                        #filterg (etc)
imglist_mode:   standard
imgfilter:      butterworth 0.5 5           #gauss 0.2 (etc)
.fi

Note that all text appearing after a "#" on any line is ignored.
Hence, a quick way to check for the unfiltered images is to insert
a # before imgfilter.
Options for keywords may be found in the man page for prm, but some
common ones are listed above.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
filterimg my.prm my.lst
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO

butterworth(1), gauss(1), imagelist(5), prm(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Tom Videen, May 1996.
