.TH IMG2IFF 1 "21-Apr-2010" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
img2iff - converts PET image files (ECAT or PETT VI format) to 
Interfile Format (.img and .ifh).

.SH SYNOPSIS
img2iff <PET filename> <ANALYZE root>

The complete PET filename must be specified, but only the rootname for the Interfile file. The program will automatically add the extensions "img" and "ifh" to the output files.

.SH DESCRIPTION
img2iff reads any PET image handled by our library routines (PETT VI and ECAT -- Matrix 6 and Matrix 7)
reorients them to the 3-D ordering expected by Analyze and creates 3 output files.

PET images are re-ordered opposite of Analyze but in the order read and displayed by NIL programs:

.nf
matrix initial element [1] := left
matrix initial element [2] := anterior
matrix initial element [3] := superior
.fi

.SH MATRIX7 FACTORS APPLIED
img2iff applies the following factors to each pixel:

0.000001 * mh7->calibration_factor * sh7->scale_factor * sh7->frame_duration / sh7->decay_corr_fctr

0.000001 is an arbitrary scaler for typical output represented well by 16-bit integers (unnecessary here but for consistency with
img2analyze).

The ECAT calibration factor is determined at normalization.

The subheader scale factor applies to each frame; Matrix 7 files use 16-bit integers and this factor maximizes precision.

Frame duration is in msec.

Decay correction is removed so that output values are not corrected for decay.

Deadtime correction occurs during reconstruction prior to image creation.


.SH EXAMPLE
img2iff p5000ho1.v ap5000ho1

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
img2analyze, ifh(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom O. Videen
