.TH IMG2ANALYZE 1 "21-Apr-2010" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
img2analyze - converts PET image files (ECAT or PETT VI format) to ANALYZE files (img & hdr)
and an Interfile Format header file (ifh).

.SH SYNOPSIS
img2analyze <PET filename> <ANALYZE root>

The complete PET filename must be specified, but only the rootname for the Analyze file. The program will automatically add the extensions "img", "hdr", and "ifh" to the output files.

.SH DESCRIPTION
img2analyze reads any PET image handled by our library routines (PETT VI and ECAT)
reorients them to the 3-D ordering expected by Analyze and creates 3 output files:
.img and .hdr files for Analyze plus an Interfile Format header file (.ifh).

PET images are re-ordered so that left brain will appear on the right and slice 1
will be the bottom of the brain (Analyze default orientation).
The Analyze orientation will match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).
The Interfile format identifies the orientation and pixel ordering as text using
keys missing in the Interfile definition:

.nf
matrix initial element [1] := right
matrix initial element [2] := posterior
matrix initial element [3] := inferior
.fi

When an image file has a z-origin in the comment field,
then img2analyze will write this origin along with the midpoints of the
x- and y-dimensions to the .ifh files as the "atlas origin".
It also writes an "atlas name", currently assumed to be "Talariach 1988".

.SH MATRIX7 FACTORS APPLIED
img2analyze applies the following factors to each pixel:

0.000001 * mh7->calibration_factor * sh7->scale_factor * sh7->frame_duration / sh7->decay_corr_fctr

0.000001 is an arbitrary scaler for typical output represented well by 16-bit integers.

The ECAT calibration factor is determined at normalization.

The subheader scale factor applies to each frame; Matrix 7 files use 16-bit integers and this factor maximizes precision.

Frame duration is in msec.

Decay correction is removed so that output values are not corrected for decay.

Deadtime correction occurs during reconstruction prior to image creation.


.SH EXAMPLE
img2analyze p5000ho1.v ap5000ho1

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
img2iff, analyze, ifh(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom O. Videen
