.TH IMGMEAN 1 "02-Feb-2004" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
imgmean - compute global means for all scans in an image list

.SH SYNOPSIS
imgmean prm lst [-s] [-t]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Imgmean computes the global means for images in an image list as
identified by a parameter file.

The parameter \fIslices\fP determines the subset of slices for which the
mean is computed.  If it is not defined, all slices are used.  If there is no
peak slice in the sxr file, then the peak used to determine the threshold will
be the maximum pixel value in the same subset of slices.  If a peak slice is defined
in the sxr file, then that the threshold will be based on the maximum pixel value
in that slice even if it is not in the range specified by slices.

Means are computed on the filtered image specified by the parameter \fIimgfilter\fP.
Filtered images are no longer created by imgmean. If they don't exist, use
the program filterimg to create them.

Means are computed for those pixels within a mask specified by the parameters:
mskimg, mskpct, and mskfilter (except if -s is used, see below).

Command line parameter \fI-t\fP will override 
the parameter \fIslices\fP in the parameter file. It will therefore determine
which slices are used in computing the mean brain activity, and it will determine
the slices searched for the peak pixel if the peak slice is not specified in the
sxr file.  Example:  -t 10to20
(the space between "-t" and "10to20" is optional).

Command line parameter \fI-s\fP will override the parameter
\fImskimg\fP in the parameter file.  The number following -s
will be the scan number used for the mask.  This image applied as a mask using the
filter and threshold specified by mskfilter and mskpct.  Example: -s 1
(the space between "-s" and "1" is optional).

Images can be processed as cbf, cbv, oef, cmro2, tissue
activity by defining the parameter processing in the parameter file.

The parameter \fImskimg\fP may be "control_image", in which case either the image 
file itself is taken for the masking image (for a list of single files) or 
the control image (the second scan number in a list of paired files) is used 
for both activation and control scans. The parameter \fImskimg\fP may also be the 
name of a specific file, in which case that file will be used as the mask for 
all images in the image list (as has been done for gba file creation). The 
general syntax is

.nf
mskimg: control_image           # uses control image of each pair
mskimg: specified p5000ho1_g2.v # one image used for the entire list
.fi

Note that "control_image" and "specified" are keywords and must be
typed exactly as shown.  The filename p5000ho1_g2.v will, obviously, differ.

If the parameter \fImskfilter\fP is defined, then the image filtered by mskfilter is used
to create the mask.  This
image is thresholded to the maximum pixel in the entire image times 
the value mskpct (multiplied by .01).

If \fIvoi_order:\fP is not specified or if it is 0, then PET images
are processed to metabolic images before computing global means.
 
If voi_order: 1, then mean global raw PET counts will be
computed before computing metabolic values.

The program will add each computed mean to the image list.
If a mean already appears in the image list for a given scan, a new
mean will not be computed!
This allows a image list to be rapidly updated when only
a few new scans are added.  It also allows you to enter mean values computed
in some other manner without imgmean recomputing them.  ONLY IF a mean value
is 0.0 or missing will it be recomputed.

.SH WHICH PEAK IS USED FOR THRESHOLDING?

The following rules apply in order (i.e., the first successful one determines the slice):
.br
1) The peak slice specified in the sxr file (when it is >0).
.br
2) The maximum pixel value in the slices given by the command line parameter \fI-t\fP.
.br
3) The maximum pixel value in the slices given by the parameter list parameter \fIslices\fP.
.br
4) The maximum pixel value in the entire image.

.SH WHICH IMAGE IS USED FOR THRESHOLDING?

1) The scan number entered on the command line with \fI-s\fP  This image will be filtered
according to the parameter \fImskfilter\fP
.br
2) The scan name entered in the parameter list with parameter "mskimg: specified".
This image will \fInot\fP be additionally filtered (the parameter mskfilter
is irrelevant).
.br
3) The control scan (parameter "mskimg: control_image").  This image will be
filtered according to the parameter \fImskfilter\fP

.bp
.SH EXAMPLE PRM FILES
.nf
ECAT 961 paired 3D images generating a mean image

# required parameters:
species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      v
imgfilter:      gauss 0.5
mskfilter:      gauss 0.5
mskpct:         33

# required if -s is not used on command line:
mskimg:         control_image   # specified filename

# optional parameters:
datapath:
slices:         6to42
processing:     none    (default is none)

# archive related parameters (optional):
scanner:        961
acquisition:    3d                
reconstruction: filtered_backprojection 
recfilter:      ramp

ECAT 953 paired 3D images generating a mean image

# required parameters:
species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      img
imgfilter:      gauss 0.5
mskfilter:      gauss 0.5
mskpct:         33

# required if -s is not used on command line:
mskimg:         control_image   # specified filename

# optional parameters:
datapath:              (default is current directory, archive and tmp)
slices:         6to42  (default is all)
processing:     none   (default is none)
voi_order:      1      (default is 0)

# archive related parameters (optional):
scanner:        953
acquisition:    stationary
reconstruction: filtered_backprojection 
recfilter:      ramp

PETT6 paired images generating a mean image

# required parameters:
species:        p
tracer:         ho
imgfilter:      none
mskfilter:      none
mskpct:         40

# required if -s is not used on command line:
mskimg:         control_image   # specified filename

# optional parameters:
datapath:
extension: 
slices:  
processing:     none
voi_order:      1

# archive related parameters (optional):
scanner:        pett6
acquisition:    low_resolution or high_resolution 
reconstruction: filtered_backprojection, maximum_likelihood, etc.
recfilter:      filterg, filterf

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
imgmean my.prm my.lst
imgmean my.prm my.lst -s 1
imgmean my.prm my.lst -t 10to20
imgmean my.prm my.lst -s4 -t8to24
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
Tom Yang, July, 1993.
Tom Videen, 1994-1998.

.SH SEE ALSO
filterimg(1), imagelist(5), prm(5), t88mean(1), imean(1).

