.TH ISUM 1 "04-Nov-96" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
isum - sum images read from an imagelist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isum prm lst filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads multiple PET images and sums them.  It does not scale by the
number of images (use imean for that function).
It will normalize all images (if the imagelist means and the "smg_norm" are not
the same value).
It will perform subtractions for difference images (if specified).  It will process PET images
as metabolic images and create an hdr file (if specified).

Output images will be in the same format as the input file. Pixel dimensions are not changed from the input images.

The following keywords are read from the prm file.  Files can be located in the local directory, a specified directory 'datapath', or /tmp.  Examples are given for each parameter, but all allowed values are given only for those parameters unique to isum.

.nf
# Required parameters for defining input filenames:

species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      v
imgfilter:      butterworth 0.5 5

# Parameters required to find an image filename in the archive (when
this feature is implemented):

scanner:        961
acquisition:    3d      
reconstruction: filtered_backprojection
recfilter:      ramp

# Optional parameters defining the image filename:

datapath:
suffix:

# Required parameters for isum processing:

smg_norm:         1000      # (any real number > 0)
smg_mode:         single    # paired, diff

# Optional parameter for isum:

processing:       none      # cbf, cbv, oef, cmro2
.fi

If the parameter "datapath" is specified, that will be the first
location searched for all input files.  Files which are created (smg,
rec, etc.) will all appear in your local directory).

.SH EXAMPLE PRM FILE
ECAT 961 paired 3D images generating a summed image of counts
.nf

# required parameters:
species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      v
imgfilter:      butterworth 0.5 5
smg_norm:       1000
smg_mode:       paired
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
imean(1), prm(5), imagelist(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Tom O. Videen: 1996
