.TH MANUALRESLICE_GUIDE 1 "13-Feb-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Procedure for aligning PET to Atlas with Align_ho2ref fails.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Define basic parameters in your shell substituting the
appropriate number for subject ID.

.nf
.ta 0.3i 0.7i 1.5i
	set ID  = 5000
	set SCN = 1
	set HO  = ho$SCN
	set OO  = oo$SCN
	set PID = p$ID
	set FIL = _g3
	set HO1   = $PID$HO$FIL
	set OO1   = $PID$OO$FIL
	set HOREF = $PID${HO}_to_${REF:t}
	set OOHO  = $PID${OO}_to_$HO
	set OOREF = $PID${OO}_to_${REF:t}
	set ATLDIR = /usr/local/npg/lib/t88/
	set MASK = $ATLDIR/meanmask

.fi
Copy the meanpet image to your working directory. 
Convert the ho image to Analyze format.

.nf
	cp $ATLDIR/meanpet.hdr .
	cp $ATLDIR/meanpet.img .
	img2analyze $HO1.v a$HO1

.SH STANDARD PARAMETERS For MANUALRESLICE
Typically, you will run manualreslice iteratively until
you get a decent fit. Before re-running it, remove the 2
files created: test.air and air_init. Substitute your image
name for ap5000ho1_g3.img. The 9 parameters used have the
following effect on the resliced image. For the first
attempt (when you will be running Align_ho2ref after
creating an initialization file) enter 1 for all the
scale-down factors. Later, if you must do the 9-parameter
fit manually, enter a value different from 1 for at least
one of the scale-down factors (i.e., 0.9).
Unfortunately, manualreslice will not like the leading spaces
to the prompts if you cut and paste the entire section below.

.nf
x-shift: positive shifts left
y-shift: positive shifts forward
z-shift: positive shifts up
roll:    positive tilts right
pitch:   positive tilts nose up
yaw:     positive rotates nose to right
x scale-down factor: <1.0 enlarges in x-dimension
y scale-down factor: <1.0 enlarges in y-dimension
z scale-down factor: <1.0 enlarges in z-dimension

	rm test.air
	rm air_init
	manualreslice
	0
	0
	0
	0
	0
	0
	1
	1
	1
	y
	air_init
	n
	ap5000ho1_g3.img
	e
	meanpet.img
	y
	test.air
	y
	imgreslice a$HO1 test

.fi
Check each iteration of the fit with vidi.
Load meanpet.img as Image 1 and the resliced water (rap5000ho1_g3.img)
as Image 2. View the composite to assess the match.
When the match is reasonably close, try Align_ho2ref again.
It will use air_init to initialize the operation.

.nf
	Align_ho2ref $PID $HO $OO v
	imgreslice a$HO1 test

.fi
If this succeeds, continue with ohratio.
Otherwise, continue with 9-parameter match below:

.nf
	manualreslice (see notes above)
	imgreslice a$HO1 test

When the match is reasonably close

	cp $HO1.v tmp.v
	scaleimage tmp.v 0.33
		(picking a value to scale tmp.v to match meanpet.t88)
	img2analyze tmp.v a$HO1
	setanamin a$HO1 0
	setanamin meanpet 0
	
	set PRM  = "-m 9 -p1 1 -t1 100 -t2 0 -e1 $MASK -x 3 -f air_init"

	alignlinear meanpet a$HO1 $HOREF.air $PRM
	imgreslice a$HO1 $HOREF

.fi
If this looks good, convert to ECAT with the extension .t88.
Set the atlas origin to plane 38 in the header. Combine the HO-to-atlas
air file with the OO-to-HO air file, reslice the OO image to atlas
space, convert it to ECAT format, and set the atlas origin.

.nf
	analyze2img ra$HO1 $HO1.t88
	setz0 $HO1.t88 38

	combine_air $OOREF.air y $HOREF.air $OOHO.air
	img2analyze $OO1.v a$OO1
	imgreslice a$OO1 $OOREF
	analyze2img ra$OO1 $OO1.t88
	setz0 $OO1.t88 38

.SH SEE ALSO
Explanations of the parameters for alignlinear and manualreslice
may be found at Roger Woods' AIR website at UCLA:
http://bishopw.loni.ucla.edu/AIR3/index.html

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 2002.
