.TH MASKOUT 1 "16-Feb-99" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
maskout - set to value all pixels NOT >= min AND <= max

.SH SYNOPSIS
maskout input output min max setval x y z [x2 y2 z2] ...

.SH PARAMETERS
.nf
input  - filename of input image
output - filename of output image
min    - mask above this intensity
max    - mask below this intensity
setval - value to assign to masked pixels
x,y,z  - coordinates of one pixel within the object
x2,y2,z2 - coordinates of a second pixel (up to 5 pixels)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program reads an ANALYZE image and determines all pixels which have values
both >= min AND <= max and which are connected to the seed pixel(s).
Then, all pixels NOT included in this subset are set to the specified value
while all pixel values within the subset are preserved.
(Compared to maskand, this performs a logical nand operation).

The search for connected pixels starts with the plane of the pixel and
goes down (increasing plane number) until the last slice and then reverses
and goes back up through all slices searching for any connected pixels
to any of the pixels identified thus far. If any pixels are added in a
loop through the slices, the program runs through all slices again.

During each iteration, the plane number (z) and total pixels within
the object for that plane are displayed for planes in which at least
one pixel has been included.

This masked image is written to the output file 
in ANALYZE format.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
maskout p5000seg1 p5000seg2 -100 20 0 290 290 20
maskout p5000seg1 p5000seg2 -100 20 0 290 290 20 300 320 29

.SH SEE ALSO
maskand(1), maskor(1), expandor(1), maskelevlines(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Feb 1999.
