.TH MEANRGT 1 "17-Oct-2001" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
meanrgt - creates composite rgt files for JSP parameter estimation

.SH SYNOPSIS
meanrgt <pid> <tracer>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This reads multiple reg and rgt files plus a time curve and creates
output files for Joel's parameter estimation routine.

.SH INPUT FILES
For pid=p2930 and tracer=fd, the following files must exist:

For each plane on which the ROIs were created, there should be
3 files:
.nf
	<pid><tracer><plane>.reg
	<pid><tracer><plane>a.rgt
	<pid><tracer><plane>b.rgt

.fi
where the "a" and "b" rgt files correspond to the first 20 frames and the last 1-20 frames
(21 to 40 time frames are allowed).

All ROIs are assumed to be the same size in computing the mean 
regional activity.

The ROIs must have names that contain the following strings.
    caud_l
    caud_r
    putant_l
    putant_r
    putpost_l
    putpost_r
    occip
    cblm

All reg and rgt files must contain all of the first 6 ROI names.
The ROI names may appear in any order.

The occip and cblm ROIs must exist in exactly one reg and one rgt file.

.nf
There must be a time data file named:
	<pid><tracer>tim.dat

For example (for ROIs on 4 planes):
	rmp2930fd15.reg
	rmp2930fd15a.rgt
	rmp2930fd15b.rgt
	rmp2930fd16.reg
	rmp2930fd16a.rgt
	rmp2930fd16b.rgt
	rmp2930fd17.reg
	rmp2930fd17a.rgt
	rmp2930fd17b.rgt
	rmp2930fd18.reg
	rmp2930fd18a.rgt
	rmp2930fd18b.rgt
	rmp2930fdtim.dat

.SH OUTPUT FILES
Four files are created. Three prm files contain time-activity 
data for the cerebellum, occipital cortex, and 8 striatal ROIs, respectively.
.nf

	rmp2930cblm.prm
	rmp2930occip.prm
	rmp2930striatal.prm

A dat file will contain exactly 4 lines:
	1) first and last time frames to be used in the fit
	2) name of the time file
	3) name of the file containing background (occip)
	4) name of file containing striatal activity

	rmp2930striatal.dat

.fi
This may be edited to change the frame numbers or to
use the cerebellum as the background region.

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Oct 2001


