.TH MRI2ANALYZE 1 "11-Jan-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
mri2analyze - Converts any set of Siemens MR image files to ANALYZE files (img & hdr)
an Interfile Format header file (ifh)

.SH SYNOPSIS
mri2analyze <mri root> <first num> <last num> <Analyze root>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Mri2analyze reads multiple, sequential MR image files, reorients them to the 3-D
ordering expected by Analyze and writes a single image file comprising all slices
plus an Analyze hdr file and an Interfile Format header file.  It does not
change the input data except for reorientation; specifically, it does not
generate voxels with uniform, cubic dimensions.

The extension "ima" is assumed for all MR image files.

The extensions "img", "hdr", and "ifh" are used for output files.

The Analyze orientation will match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).

This program should work with all Siemens MR images.  However, with older images from
the VAX-based scanners, it is possible that the bytes in your data set were swapped somewhere
along the line.  Should you get an error message that you image is "not a valid image file"
and you are convinced otherwise, try swapping bytes with a script something like the following:

.nf
set files = `ls *.ima`
foreach i ($files)
? dd if=$i of=x$i bs=256 conv="swab"
? end
.fi

The new files (beginning with x) may work fine.

.SH NOTES ON ORIENTATION
While this program should produce output in a consistent orientation (with transverse
sections), it has only been
validated with MR images in View_LtoR (sagittal).  While I believe there is reasonable
checking, any definition of orientation which has View_Head starting with the slice at
top of the head and View_LtoR starting with the slice on the right might be expected
to have other surprises. 

.SH EXAMPLE
mri2analyze 300-3- 132 259 m300mpr

will convert MR images 300-3-132.ima, 300-3-133.ima, ... 300-3-259.ima to m300mpr.img, m300mpr.hdr
and m300mpr.ifh

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
mri2ana(1), mriseq2analyze(1), analyze_avw, interfile(5),
dcm2analyze(1), pac2analyze(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom O. Videen


