.TH MRISEQ2ANALYZE 1 "08-Feb-95" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME

mriseq2analyze - Converts a time-sequence of Siemens MR image files to ANALYZE files (img & hdr)
and an Interfile Format header file (ifh)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
mriseq2analyze <first_image> <number_of_frames> <images_per_series>
	<output_root>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

Mriseq2analyze reads multiple, sequential MR image files, reorients them to radiological
orientation and writes a single image file comprising all frames
plus an Analyze hdr file and an Interfile Format header file.  It does not
change the input data except for reorientation.

Note that mriseq2analyze is similar to mri2analyze except that sequences
contain a single slice acquired at different times (versus a volume acquisition)
and require incrementing both the last (series number) and
next-to-last (image number) numbers in the single-slice filenames (see mri2analyze).
If images_per_series = 1 then both numbers are incremented by 1.
If images_per_series = 2 then the series number is incremented by 1 while the image
number is incremented by 2.

The extension "ima" is assumed for all MR image files.

The extensions "img", "hdr", and "ifh" are used for output files.

The Analyze orientation should match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).

This program should work with all Siemens MR images.  However, orientation has not been
checked for all possible input files.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
mriseq2analyze 582-17-337 60 2 p582_seq
or
mriseq2analyze 582-17-337.ima 60 2 p582_seq

.fi
will convert MR images 582-17-337.ima, 582-18-339.ima, ... 582-76-455
to p582_seq.img, p582_seq.hdr and p582_seq.ifh

.nf
mriseq2analyze 582-17-337 60 1 p582_seq
or
mriseq2analyze 582-17-337.ima 60 1 p582_seq

.fi
will convert MR images 582-17-337.ima, 582-18-338.ima, ... 582-76-396
to p582_seq.img, p582_seq.hdr and p582_seq.ifh

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS

mri2analyze(1), ANALYZE, interfile(5)

.SH AUTHOR

Tom O. Videen


