.TH MRITOT88 1 "16-Oct-97" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH PROCEDURE

The following programs may be used to transform MR images into
Talairach 1988 space using t88trans.  This example has all steps
for one example image. 
 
.SH MR image in Analyze format
The following assumes that p5133mr0.img has been oriented such that
one plane includes the anterior and posterior commissures
(Talairach z-origin).

.nf
p5133mr0.img - Analyze image (160x256x256) - Original
p5133mr0.hdr - Analyze header

p5133mr1.img - Analyze image (80x128x128) - resized to 2mm pixels
p5133mr1.hdr - Analyze header

p5133mr2.img - Analyze image (128x128x128) - padded to 128x128
p5133mr2.hdr - Analyze header

.SH FILE lst
.nf
5133  2  0.0  mr.map

.fi
Note: If you do not wish to run imgmean on your MR images, set the
normalization to the same value in both the imagelist and prm file
(i.e., use 1.0 in the lst instead of 0.0 and set smg_norm to 1).
Should you wish to normalized the MR images (a good idea), the lst
and prm files shown here will work. However, you \fImust remove\fP the
peak slice from the sxr files.  Make a local copy of the sxr files
and change the last to values of the 4th line to zeros.  When your
run imgmean you should see "Peak from slices: 1 - 128". If you do
not see a range of slices, your sxr file has a peak slice defined in
it.  (Should this procedure be used on a regular basis, I will remove
this behavior from imgmean).


.SH FILE prm
.nf
species:        p
tracer:         mr
extension:      v
imgfilter:      none
processing:     none
smg_norm:       1000
smg_mode:       single
smg_divisor:    global
smg_included:   all

.SH MR EXAMPLE
.nf
analyze
	Load p5133mr0 resized (interpolate, cubic voxels, 2.0 mm voxels)
	Save as p5133mr1
analyze2img p5133mr1 p5133mr2.v
img2analyze p5133mr2.v p5133mr2
analyze
	Load p5133mr2 and check the origin (anterior commissure)
		and brain dimensions (using Display Oblique)
	Note: the dimensions should be 1/2 of those in the original,
		y and z coordinates should be 1/2 (i.e., y' = 0.5*y), and
		x coordinate should be (0.5 * x') + 24.0
	Also, whereas Analyze will not show fractional values,
		makemap can handle them.

alignlinear p5133mr2 p5133mr2 p5133mr.air -m 6
scanair p5133mr.air
	(should show an identity matrix)
makemap p5133mr.map p5133mr.air 66 71 74 64 84 34
	(your coordinates will differ!)
imgmean prm lst
t88trans prm lst p5133mr.t88
cv7to6 p5133mr.t88 p5133mr_6.t88 1

.SH NOTES
.fi
All of the above steps may be performed on either Sun 4.1.3 or Solaris 2
and all ECAT format images (including MR's) may be view with spideram
on either OS.  Currently, view25d requires Version 6 ECAT files
and runs only under Sun 4.1.3.  Also, mri2analyze runs only on Sun 4.1.3.

analyze2img clips or pads slices to create an output image with 128x128
pixel slices. If it removes brain pixels, resize the pixels in Analyze first.

MR images in ECAT format may be summed with t88trans or imean.

The following warning often means that t1 and/or t2 are too large in alignlinear
(but does not mean that the fit is wrong; examine it!)

.nf
	WARNING, HESSIAN MATRIX IS NOT POSITIVE DEFINITE
	FUNCTION MAY BE NEAR INFLECTION POINT OR MAXIMUM
	USE RESULTS WITH CAUTION
 
The following warning is a good bet that the fit is erroneous.

.nf
	WARNING: matposd(): Singular matrix from routine rg()

.SH CHECKING THE FIT
The program vidi may be used to check the registration between the PET and MR.
IMHO this is faster and more versatile than the ANALYZE.
Alternatively, use the Surface Matching process in ANALYZE and select the
two images as the base and match volumes in the Transform option.

In either case, while the MR image of the brain only is used by
alignlinear, the MR image of the entire head is more illuminating when
comparing PET to MR registration.

.SH COMPARING WITH PET
If you wish to use exactly the same transformation for your MR images
as for your PET images, use a 128x128 MR image for your PET to MR
registration.  The following assumes that p5133mr2.img is an eroded
brain image with one plane including the anterior and posterior
commissures.
 
.SH FILE lst1
.nf
5133  2  0.0

.SH FILE prm1
.nf
species:        p
tracer:         ho
extension:      v
imgfilter:      butterworth 0.5 5
processing:     none
smg_norm:       1
smg_mode:       single
smg_divisor:    global
smg_included:   all

.SH PET EXAMPLE
.nf
analyze2img p5133mr1 p5133mr2.v
img2analyze p5133mr2.v p5133mr2
butterworth p5133ho1.v 0.5 5
img2analyze p5133ho1_5b5.v ap5133ho1_5b5
setanamin ap5133ho1_5b5 0
alignlinear p5133mr2 ap5133ho1_5b5 p5133.air -m 6 -t1 10 -t2 600 -p1 1 -p2 1
	(the value for t2 may differ for your PET image)
makemap p5133.map p5133.air 66 71 74 64 84 34
	(the coordinates and dimensions should be the same as used for the MR)
imgmean prm lst1
	(make sure you understand the use of the peak plane by imgmean)
t88trans prm1 lst1 p5133ho1.t88
cv7to6 p5133ho1.t88 p5133ho1_6.t88 1

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
analyze2img(1), img2analyze(1), butterworth(1), setanamin(1), makemap(1),
t88trans(1), cv7to6(1), air(1), ANALYZE

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 1996.
