.TH PEAKSEARCH 1 "26-Jul-99" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
peaksearch - identify distinct peaks in an image

.SH SYNOPSIS
peaksearch image mask output distance cutoff [scaler]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Peaksearch identifies distinct peaks in an image with selectable
criteria for the peaks (e.g., volume summed, amplitude,
separation, intermediate valley).

.SH PARAMETERS
.nf
image -	Input image filename

mask -	Input masking image filename
		Peaks will be identified in the input image only for
		pixels which are greater than 0 in this image.
		This permits regional averages for peaks located on
		the edge of the brain (or subject global volume)
		to include pixels which are outside the mask, thus
		allowing peaks to exist on the edge of an image rather
		than shifted inward due to zero values beyond the mask.

output -	Output filename with peak information 

distance - Minimum distance between distinct peaks (in mm).
		When peaksearch is used in conjunction with smooth3d,
		this distance should be 2x radius used in smooth3d to
		avoid overlapping peaks.

cutoff -	Minimum pixel value for identified peaks.
		This must be a positive or negative integer; if it 
		is negative, troughs will be found instead of peaks.

scaler -	(optional) Real number multiplied times each pixel
		value before processing peak amplitudes and cutoff.
		Used to convert PET counts to metabolic units where
		images have been processed to permit a linear conversion.
.bp
.SH OUTPUT FILE
The output (peak) file is in voi format and can be used as input
for voistat.
.nf

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
peaksearch p5000oef1.v p5000mask.v p5000oef1.pk1 21.4 0.01
peaksearch p5000oef1.v p5000mask.v p5000oef1.pk1 21.4 0.01 0.001
peaksearch p5000oef1.v p5000mask.v p5000oef1.pk1 21.4 -1.0 0.001
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
smooth3d(1), voi(5), voistat(1), peakid(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, July 1999.
