.TH PEAKID 1 "08-Jan-97" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
peakid - identify distinct peaks in an image

.SH SYNOPSIS
peakid in out cutoff threshold separation radius [mask]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Peakid identifies distinct peaks in an image with selectable
criteria for the peaks (e.g., volume summed, amplitude,
separation, intermediate valley).

.SH PARAMETERS
.nf
in	-	Input filename (with up to 75 slices)

out	-	Output filename for peak information 

cutoff -	Minimum pixel value for identified peaks.
		This must be a positive or negative integer; if it 
		is negative, negative peaks will be identified.

threshold - Threshold for fraction of peak amplitude which 
		must be reached to identify separate peaks; 
		i.e., 0.9 means that 2 distinct peaks must be separated by a
		valley dropping 10% below the peak amplitude of both peaks.

separation - Minimum distance between distinct peaks (in mm).
		Typically on the order of the image resolution.

radius -	Radius of the averaging sphere applied to the 
		input data (0-4 pixels). If the radius is 0, single
		pixel peaks are identified. If the radius is 3,
		the peaks will represent the average over a 7-pixel
		diameter region (147 pixel volume) analogous to
		the original search volume in af3d.

mask -	(optional) Filename of a masking image.
		Peaks will be identified in the input image only for
		pixels which are greater than 0 in this image.
		This permits regional averages for peaks located on
		the edge of the brain (or subject global volume)
		to include pixels which are outside the mask, thus
		allowing peaks to exist on the edge of an image rather
		than shifted inward due to zero values beyond the mask.
.bp
.SH OUTPUT FILE FORMAT:
.nf
 genrep.img         mask.img           Averaging Radius =  3 pixels (vol = 147)
 Threshold =     50 Separation Fraction =  0.90  Separation Distance =  18.0 mm
 # 1  41  57  46    82     13   X= -47.0  Y=  15.0  Z= -30.0  D=   0.0 (# 1)
 # 2  79 100  45    65     79   X=  29.0  Y= -71.0  Z= -28.0  D= 114.8 (# 1)
 # 3  43  53  21    62     99   X= -43.0  Y=  23.0  Z=  20.0  D=  50.8 (# 1)
 # 4  85  51  46    60     15   X=  41.0  Y=  27.0  Z= -30.0  D=  88.8 (# 1)
 # 5  72 111  46    54     26   X=  15.0  Y= -93.0  Z= -30.0  D=  26.2 (# 2)

.fi
The first line of the output file contains the name of the image file
on which the peaks were identified, the name of the masking file (if any), the
pixel radius of the averaging sphere used to define peaks, and the volume of
this sphere in pixels.

The second line of the output file contains the minimum threshold,
separation fraction, and separation distance used to identify the peaks in the
file.

For each peak, the numbers correspond to the following:

1) The peak number beginning with #1 and listed in descending amplitude.

2) The X, Y, and Z pixel coordinates of the peak where X=1-128, Y=1-128,
and Z=1-49 (slice number).  The image center is X=64.5, Y=64.5.  The
intercommissural line passes through the zorigin (see imghdr).

3) The image pixel value of the peak.  Note that for difference images
where the input images were scaled to 1000, this value represents 10 times the
percent difference.  I.e., 95 = 9.5% increase; -56 = 5.6% decrease.

4) The number of voxels comprising the peak and contiguous voxels with
magnitudes > Separation Fraction x Peak.  (If this is very small, it is likely
that the peak represents noise or an artifact.  Using an averaging radius of
3 instead of 0 minimizes the identification of small, artifactual peaks.)

5) The X, Y, and Z stereotaxic coordinates of the peak where positive Z
is dorsal to the intercommissural (AC-PC) line, positive X is left of the
AC-PC line, and positive Y is anterior to the midpoint of the AC-PC line.

6) The 3-D distance in mm to the nearest larger peak (i.e., those listed
above it) in the list followed by the number of that peak in parentheses.

.SH NOTE
When the radius > 0, peaks will not be detected on the extreme end slices.
For example, if radius = 3, there will be no peaks on slices 1-3 or 47-49
of a 49-slice image. If you want to identify peaks at the extremes, pad
your input image with more slices.
There will also be no peaks withing 3 pixels of the edge of any slice.

.SH ALGORITHM
The algorithm is explained for a positive threshold; for negative peaks
is a SIGN factor (-1) is included in all steps comparing magnitude.

Define:

a) THRESHOLD = minimum pixel value acceptable for peaks;

b) FRACTION = threshold for fraction of peak amplitude which is required
to separate peaks;

c) SEPARATION = minimum 3-D distance (mm) required to separate peaks;

d) PeakAmplitude = image pixel value of a particular peak;

e) CUTOFF = the pixel magnitude defining a unique peak;

The algorithm used is:

1) If a non-zero radius for the averaging sphere was entered, a 3-D
filter is applied to the input image.  Each pixel of the new image represents
the mean value of all pixels contained in a roughly spherical-shaped region
centered on the pixel.  The actual pixel-definition of these regions are
shouwn in the appendix.  Pixels for which the spherical region is not
completely within the (128,128,49) image array are set to zero (i.e., slices
1, 2, 3, 47, 48, and 49 plus pixels at the edge of each plane for a region
radius of 3).

2) If a masking image is used, it is read into an array MASK; if not, all
elements of MASK are set to 1.

3) All elements of an logical array (USED), with the same
dimensions as the image, are set false.

4) Identify the maximum pixel value (PeakAmplitude) in the image for
which USED=false and MASK>=1.  If this value is < THRESHOLD, then stop.

5) Set CUTOFF = FRACTION*PeakAmplitude.

6) Identify and count all image pixels which are connected in 3-D to the
peak pixel which have magnitudes > CUTOFF.  If any of these pixels is USED,
then the peak is not unique.

7) Set USED=true for all connected pixels with magnitudes > CUTOFF.

8) If the peak is not unique, go to step 4.

9) Compute the 3-D separation distance between this peak and all
previously identified peaks (squareroot of the sum of the squares of the
differences of the x-, y-, and z-coordinates of each pair of peaks).  Multiply
by 2 to give distance in mm.

10) If the distance from any other peak is <= SEPARATION, go to step 4.

11) Store the peak coordinates and magnitude in an internal list.  If
100 peaks have been stored, then stop.

12) Write the location of the peak, its magnitude, the number of pixels
comprising the peak (>CUTOFF), and its distance from the nearest previously
identified peak to the output file.

13) Go to step 4.


.SH Spherical Region Definition
The averaging regions may have a radius of 0-4 pixels, with diameter and
total pixels as indicated below:

         Pixel    3D Pixel  Total Pixels   3D Diam
         Radius   Diameter   in Region      (mm)
           0          1          1            2
           1          3          7            6
           2          5         33           10
           3          7        147           14
           4          9        305           18


     The shape of the regions for different diameters is the same as of those
used in AF3D.  3D regions are created by stacking these 2D regions.

.nf
     Radius=1  Diameter=3  Pixels=7

                      X
             X      X X X
                      X

            (1)      (5)

     Radius = 2  Diameter = 5  Pixels = 33

                                   X
                    X X X        X X X
             X      X X X      X X X X X
                    X X X        X X X
                                   X

            (1)      (9)         (13)

     Radius = 3  Diameter = 7  Pixels = 147

                                        X                X X X
                     X X X          X X X X X          X X X X X
          X        X X X X X        X X X X X        X X X X X X X
        X X X      X X X X X      X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X
          X        X X X X X        X X X X X        X X X X X X X
                     X X X          X X X X X          X X X X X
                                        X                X X X

         (5)         (21)             (29)               (37)


     Radius = 4  Diameter = 9  Pixels = 305

                                              X                  X X X
                       X X X X X          X X X X X            X X X X X
        X X X X X    X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X        X X X X X X X
  X     X X X X X    X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X X X
X X X   X X X X X    X X X X X X X    X X X X X X X X X    X X X X X X X X X
  X     X X X X X    X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X X X
        X X X X X    X X X X X X X      X X X X X X X        X X X X X X X
                       X X X X X          X X X X X            X X X X X
                                              X                  X X X

 (5)      (25)           (45)               (49)                 (57)

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
peakid genrep.t88 genrep.pk1 50 0.9 18 3 mask.t88
peakid genrep.t88 genrep.pk1 50 0.9 18 3
.fi

This will search the mean difference image genrep.img for all peaks of an amplitude 
of at least 50 (representing a 5.0% change for images scaled to 1000) which are
distinct from neighboring peaks by a valley dropping at least 10% from the peak 
maxima and separated from each other by at least 18 mm in 3-D space. Peak values 
will represent the mean of all pixels over a 147-pixel spherical volume (3-pixel 
radius). For the first example, only peaks which are within the mask identified by
mask.img will be identified.

.SH SEE ALSO
peakstrip(1), af3d_par

.SH AUTHORS
Tom O. Videen, Tom Yang
