.TH PETPROC 1 "28-Oct-92" "
.SH NAME
petproc -- Computes tissue activity conversion factors for PET images. Creates hdr (or HDR) files which are used by spideram and other programs requiring tissue activity values.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B petproc subject_id 

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program computes PETT count conversion factors for scan files
obtained in pseudo-list mode (dynamic acquisition followed by creation of
multiple scan files).  The current version supports the following:

PET Image     File Type   PIE File Type
.br
PETT VI (old)  1000         3 or 4
.br
PETT VI (new)  1020         4 or 5
.br
ECAT 953B      3000            7

The conversion factors are written to a 256-byte HDR file
with the same name as the image file with extension '.hdr'.  These conversion factors are used by
SPIDERAM to display images as tissue activity images by converting the PETT
counts for each pixel. The conversion factors in an HDR file may be displayed
with the utility hdrinfo.

Two conversion factors are computed.  One converts the PETT counts in a
frame directly to well counts/ml/sec and is referred to as the
non-decay-corrected PETT conversion factor.  The second converts the PETT
counts in a frame to counts/ml/sec decay-corrected to the time of
administration and is referred to as the decay-corrected PETT conversion
factor.

.SH ALGORITHM

The program computes the non-decay-corrected PETT conversion factor
using:

PETTCONV = pieslope * 60 sec/min
.br
           ---------------------
.br
            length of frame

and program computes the decay-corrected PETT conversion factor using:

PETTCONV = pieslope*60 sec/min *EXP(decay const * mean time)
.br
           ------------------------------------------------
.br
                         length of frame

with units of:

     PETTCONV (well counts/ml/sec) / (PETT counts/scan)
.br
     pieslope (well counts/ml/sec) / (PETT counts/min)
.br
     decay constant (1/sec)
.br
     mean time (sec)
.br
     length of frame (sec/scan)

.SH PIE FILE (input)

A file of conversion factors for a given bank pair (known as 'pie slopes'
in the local jargon) must exist for converting PETT counts/pixel to well
counts/ml/sec.  These files have the extension .pie or .PIE and are created with the
utility piecreate.

.SH IMAGE FILE (input)

Petproc typically reads the headers of PETT image files during
processing, but it may read HDR files instead.  If HDR files are read, the
user must be certain that the original images were all processed with the same
reconstruction stream as the phantoms used to generate the PIE files (if
images files are read, the program performs this check).

.SH HDR FILE (output)

An HDR file is created for each image processed.  These are 256-byte
files with the extension .hdr and the same file name as the image file.  Their
contents is specified in HDRFORM.FIL and may be read using the utility
hdrinfo.

.SH RCD FILE (output)

An RCD file is created each time petproc is run.  This has the extension .rcd and
contains information about the parameters chosen during processing of each
image.  The following information appears in the RCD file for each scan frame:

     Processed by TOV  on 10/30/92 with petproc {27-Oct-92}
.br
     Pie File used: p1678g.pie

     Frame Number    = 1
.br
     File to Process = p1693s1.c
.br
     HDR File        = p1693s1.hdr
.br
     Start Time      = 2.0 seconds
.br
     Scan Length     = 120.0 seconds
.br
     Bank Pairs      = 0.7
.br
     Pie Slope       = 14.0937
.br
     Non-Decay-corrected:
.br
        PETT Conversion Factor/Scan Period = 6.88611
.br
     Decay-corrected to time of administration:
.br
        PETT Conversion Factor/Scan Period = 6.93107
.br
        Half Life    = 6583.2 seconds
.br
     Efficiency Factor included in PETT Conversion Factor =
.br
         0.977193
.br
        (not included in the Pie Slope)

.SH TIM.DAT FILE (output)

A TIM.DAT file may be created by answering 'Y' when the option appears at
the end of processing a set of scan files.  This file is in SPED-compatible
format and contains the weighted mean time of each frame for all images
processed.  These times are the mid-time of each frame adjusted so that half
the activity is recorded before and after it.  It is assumed that tracer
concentration is constant so that with radioactive decay, measured acativity
will decrease over the period of the frame.  These weighted mid-times are
computed with the formula:

     midtime = starttime +  -(1/tau) * 
.br
                   ln((exp(-tau*framelength)+1)/2)

where tau (decay constant) and framelength are in seconds.  These weighted
mid-times will be slightly less than the mid-time of each frame.


.SH USING PETPROC

To run petproc enter:  'petproc subject ID' where the subject ID is the
name of the RCD and TIM.DAT files to be created.  For example:

     petproc m100

will create files m100.rcd and m100TIM.DAT in your current directory.

The program allows the user to use a pie file to compute the pie slope
from a specified average bank pairs value.  The user enters his initials, the
name of the old and new scan files, the start time and length of each file,
and the average pie slope.  The program has default values for everything
except the user's initials, the pie file name, the name of the first old scan
file, and the average bank pairs of the first file.

.bp
.SH ANNOTATION OF THE PROMPTS

.SH Enter the name of 1 image file you will be processing?

This image file is used to determine the type of reconstruction that
is used in all the images and is used to check the type of pie file
that will be read in the next step.  Once a pie file has been read,
its type will be compared against all images that are processed.

.SH Filter used in PETT VI reconstruction?

Optional

.SH Pie File Name?

Enter the complete path.

.SH Multiply pie factors by this efficiency?

PETT VI sensitivity drifts daily.  The efficiency factor computed here is based on the total counts/sec in the blank scan compared with the same in the blank scan taken when the last PIE was computed, factoring in decay of the Ge-68 in the ring source.  This factor is not necessary (nor is it used) for ECAT images.


.SH *** Average Bank Pairs 0.7 LESS than Smallest Pie 3.01118
.SH *** A Linear Extrapolation was made

PIE files generally have factors for 5 bank pair values.  When
the bank pairs value of your scan is outside of this range, a linear
extrapolation is made to estimate the conversion factor (referred to
as the PIE SLOPE).  Linear extrapolations at the low end are probably
fairly reasonable as the curve is relatively flat;  they will be less
reliable at the high end.

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS

hdr(5), hdrinfo(1), metproc(1), piedata(1), piecreate(1), spideram(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Tom O. Videen
