.TH RAPTURE 1 "03-Dec-97" "Neuro PET Group"

.SH NAME
.B rapture 
- Regional Analysis of Power of T-statistics
Using Replication for Establishment

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B rapture 
.I logfile

.SH PARAMETERS

\fIlogfile\fP: the logfile name. This file contains most of the useful information you will want to save.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrapture\fP on the UNIX machines is the X window version of the
\fBrapture\fP currently running on the Concurent machines. It will create
and evalute 3D irregular and spherical regions of interest on 49-slice images.
Specifically:

.ta 0.1i 0.4i
	1)	3D ROIs may be created semi-automatically using all 
.br
		continuous voxels above (or below) a threshold value on 
.br
		some input image.

	2)	Regional means may be calculated for individual and/or 
.br
		groups of images.

	3)	Estimates of power for t-tests may be calculated based 
.br
		on estimates of variance from a sample input set of 
.br
		data.
.fi


.SH DATA ANALYSIS OUTLINE

I. Hypothesis Generation:

.ta 0.1i 0.4i
	1)	For each foci of interest, display the slice with the 
.br
		maximum t-value.
.br
	2)	Generate an ROI and extend it to all adjacent slices.
.br
	3)	Optimize the ROI boundaries by selecting different 
.br
		threshold levels on the t-image and compute the regional 
.br
		t from the original smg files.
.br
	4)	ROI boundaries may be limited or trimmed to define an 
.br
		area of interest corresponding to hypothesis based on 
.br
		other (non-PET) information.
.br
	5)	Save the optimal ROI definition in a disk file (.trg).
.br
	6)	Process the scan list to estimate power power for 
.br
		difference numbers of subjects.
.br
	7)	Based on the power calculations, select the ROIs which 
.br
		will be pursued and the number of subjects required for 
.br
		a likely replication.
.fi

II. Replication:

.ta 0.1i 0.4i
	1)	Acquire a second set of control and test images.
.br
	2)	Create a new scan file list control and test files.
.br
	3)	Use \fBrapture\fP to compute t-values for each ROI on the new 
.br
		data sets.
.fi

III. Presentation:

.ta 0.1i 0.4i
	1)	Bonferroni-correct the p-values for the number of ROIs 
.br
		tested.
.br
	2)	Generate a composite t-image generated by combining the 
.br
		two lists of test and control scan files.
.br
	3)	Images may be displayed in any orientation with \fBspideram\fP 
.br
		(1) or \fBview25d\fP (1).
.br
	4)	ROIs may be outlined by using \fBrapture\fP (restricted to 
.br
		transverse slices) or \fBview25d\fP (1).
.br
	5)	Centers of mass of the ROIs are computed in \fBrapture\fP.
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES OF INPUT FILES
All input image should be 49-slice images (either PETT VI or ECAT 953B images).

Input file lists may be any of the following formats. Files are read in
\fIfixed format\fP, so column alignment is critical!

.B Paired Image Data Input File Format:

.nf
BOPPHG 0 PAIRED
16       SINGLE (control/activation)
p1967ho6.smg       p1967ho5.smg
p1969ho2.smg       p1969ho3.smg
p1970ho2.smg       p1970ho1.smg
p1982ho6.smg       p1982ho7.smg
p1967ho2.smg       p1967ho1.smg
p1969ho6.smg       p1969ho7.smg
p1970ho6.smg       p1970ho5.smg
p1982ho2.smg       p1982ho3.smg
p1967ho6.smg       p1967ho7.smg
p1969ho2.smg       p1969ho1.smg
p1970ho2.smg       p1970ho3.smg
p1982ho6.smg       p1982ho5.smg
p1967ho2.smg       p1967ho3.smg
p1969ho6.smg       p1969ho5.smg
p1970ho6.smg       p1970ho7.smg
p1982ho2.smg       p1982ho1.smg
.fi

.B Unpaired Image Data Input File Format:

.nf
FILENM 0 UNPAIRED
10              (control)
p820ho1.smg
p910ho1.smg
p965ho1.smg
p985ho1.smg
p996ho1.smg
p1010ho1.smg
p1334ho1.smg
p1424ho1.smg
p1500ho1.smg
p1950ho1.smg
 6              (test)
p900ho1.smg
p960ho1.smg
p980ho1.smg
p999ho1.smg
p1000ho1.smg
p1234ho1.smg
.fi

.B Difference Image Data Input File Format:

.nf
FILENM 0 PAIRED
16      DIFFERENCE
p1967ho5-6.dif
p1969ho3-2.dif
p1970ho1-2.dif
p1982ho7-6.dif
p1967ho1-2.dif
p1969ho7-6.dif
p1970ho5-6.dif
p1982ho3-2.dif
p1967ho7-6.dif
p1969ho1-2.dif
p1970ho3-2.dif
p1982ho5-6.dif
p1967ho3-2.dif
p1969ho5-6.dif
p1970ho7-6.dif
p1982ho1-2.dif
.fi

.B Unpaired Difference Image Data Input File Format:

.nf
FILENM 0 UNPAIRED
10       DIFFERENCE  (control)
p820h21.smg
p910h21.smg
p965h21.smg
p985h43.smg
p996h43.smg
p1010h21.smg
p1334h67.smg
p1424h43.smg
p1500h43.smg
p1950h21.smg
 6              (test)
p900h21.smg
p960h43.smg
p980h67.smg
p999h21.smg
p1000h21.smg
p1234h43.smg
.fi

.SH MENU OPTIONS

.B Images normalized to? <1000.0>

This value is used in computing the tables for the power analysis, These tables
contain power estimates based on changes of 2, 3, 5, 10, and 15% of this normalization value.

Use the default if your images were normalized to 1000 PET counts.

.nf
Main Menu Options:
__________________________________________________________________________
***  RAPTURE {28-Dec-93}                                     <<MAIN MENU>>
.fi

.ta 0.1i 0.3i 0.5i
	\fBM	=	Masking file for regions
.br
	S	=	Scaler from image max
.br
	A	=	Region scaler
.br
	R	=	Region generation
.br
	D	=	Display a region
.br
	G	=	Get a region
.br
	F	=	File a region
.br
	T	=	Totals & stats for current region
.br
	O	=	Optimize region size
.br
	P	=	Process set of input files
.br
	C	=	Create a continuous region
.br
	I	=	Individual image regional values
.br
	Z	=	Zero current limits
.br
	W	=	Recompute region weights
.br
	O	=	Refresh Ramtek
.br
	X	=	Exit\fP
.fi
.nf
__________________________________________________________________________
.fi

.B M = Masking file for regions:

ROIs may be created on an unmasked image while restricting the limits of the ROIs to
that of a masking image. this option is intented to allow you to see all your data but only define
the ROIs on data to which all subjects contributed. If you masked your image before calling
\fBrapture\fP, this option is uncessary. When you select a masking file, its name will appear to the
right of this menu option. When you cancel the mask, the name should disappear.

This masking file will also be applied to a prefined ROI in any calculations (i.e., computing
mean on or t on a new set of data.

.B S = Scale from image max

Unlike \fBspideram\fP which scales the image each time you display it (unless you use an absolute
scale), \fBrapture\fP always uses a fixed scale (saving the time required to recompute it and
allowing you to force a scale to reveal particular responses). Before you can display any slice data,
you must set the scale. Normally you will select the scale for the slice with the maximum pixel
value:

.B Slice for scaling (0 to cancel)? <0>

.B Scale to positive values? <Y>

.nf
Y --> displays positive pixel values;
N --> displays negative pixel values;
.fi

.B Image file name? <>

.B A = Absolute scale

If you wish to specify the maximum value for the display scale, you can do so with this option
(instead of scaling to the maximum pixel on some particular slice).

\fBScale to image max/min of? < >\fP

The current scale will appear in parenthesis. You may choose either a positive or negative scale.

.B R = Region generation

Cals up the REGION MENU (see details below).

.B D = Display a region

Displays a ROI on the specified image.

.B Image file name? <>

\fBOutline the regions (instead of solid fill)? <N>\fP

There are two options: when the ROI is displayed on image slices, each voxel may be filled with solid
white, or the entire ROI may be outlined (allowing the values of internal pixels to be visualized).

.B Display more slices? <Y>

12 slices are displayed at a time with the atlas z-coordinate and slice number (in parenthesis)
underneath. If there are more than 12 slices defining the ROI, you will get this prompt to display
more.

.B G = Get a region

Reads an ROI from a disk file (.trg).

.B Region file name? < >

The file name may be specified with or without the extension (it always defaults to .trg).

As the region file is read, a summary is written to the screen.

.B F = File a region

Saves a ROI from a disk file (with extension .trg).

.B Region file name? < >

Enter the name with no extension.

.B Region name? < >

This name will be stored in the first line of the trg file. The default is the file name. You may
enter up to 20 characters.

\fBT = Totals & stats for current region\fP

Gives basic statistics for the current ROI, such as:

.nf
File on which it was defined.
Slices on which it is defined.
Inclusion threshold is the cutoff voxel value.
Range gives the minimum and maximum voxel values within the ROI.
Peak in Slice n gives the slice number of the maximum voxel.
.fi

Stereotaxic Center of Mass in atlas coordinates. This is calculated using the ROI weights from the
defining image. If you want the center of mass of a previously defined boundary on a new image, you
must first recompute the region weights (option W; see below).

.nf
Mean voxel vlaue for the ROI.
SD of voxel values.
Pixels contained in ROI.
.fi

.B O = Optimize region size

This option allows you to automatically expand the boundaries of a region while computing regional
t-values. It is intented to examine the relationship of t to region size and, in particular, to
identify the boundaries giving a maximum t. Any previously defined region is erased when this option 
is caled.

\fBFile name of image files? < >\fP

.B File to determine region? < >

.B ZSEED? < >

.B XSEED? < >

.B YSEED? < >

If you have read or created a region already, the seed coordinates will default to those of that
region.

.B Initial boundary threshold? < >

.B Direction of Values (-1 or +1)? <1>

Allows optimization of either negative or positive peaks.

.B Step size for automatic region expansion? <0>

You may use a coarse step at first and a fine step (1) once you have located the neighbourhood of the
optimal threshold.

.B Threshold to stop at? < >

It this is too small, your region will become very large and processing will become proportionately
slower. You can stop processing (see below) if you are displaying the regions as they are generated.

.B Maximum number of pixels in region? < >

The automatic enlargement of the region will stop after it has reached or exceed this size.

.B Display while processing? <N>

Display may be useful, but will slow down the processing a little.

.B Proceed? <Y>

If you enter 'N', you will return to the Main Menu; 'Y' initialtes procesing.

.B Type "S" to stop...

This allows you to stop automatic region generation. Note that this does not generate an interrupt;
rather, the keyboard is checked intermittently while the region is being created. Therefore, the
routine generally not stop as promptly as you might desire. There is no harm in repetively strinking
'S' should you impatience need some physical expression.

As the regions are generated, regional t is computed and a summary is written to the screen (and to
the log file):

.nf
.B Thresh  Slices   Pixels   T     Max T     Thresh
   50       4        17    2.389   3.289        50
   45       6        29    1.389   3.289        50
.fi

.nf
Thresh is the current threshold defining the region boundary.
Slices and Pixels tell the size of the current region.
T is a regional t calculated from the individual input image files.
Max T is the maximum t computed so far and the final
Thresh is the threshold at which Max T was found.
.fi

.B ... continue? <Y>

This prompt serves to prevent the Main Menu from coming up immediately, scrolling the table of
t-values off the screen before you have examined them. Simply enter RETURN after you have surveyed
the t's and thresholds.

The last region generated may be displayed by selecting option 'D' (after continuing, of course).

.B P = Process set of input files

Having defined some ROI, this option compute the regional t on any list of files.

\fBWeight pixel values by magnitude? < >\fP

If you respond 'N', all pixel values within the ROI will be weighted equally in determining regional 
means. It you respond 'Y', each pixel values withing the ROI will be weighted using the pixel 
magnitudes in the defining image in determining the regional mean. Currently there is no proven
superority to weighting unequally, although there is reason to believe that it will be for some cases.

\fBFile name of image files? < >\fP

\fBMinimum accetable level of significance (0.0 to skip power analysis)?\fP

The power analysis is believed to be useful for deciding which ROIs to use for hypotheses. Therefore,
as the hypothesis-generation stage you should use this, selecting alpha to some appropriate value (say
0.05 if you are interested in a single region; 0.01 if you are interested in 5 regions -- to allow for
Bonferroni corrections of the test data).

Also, if you want ROI information about mean differences, probability, etc., save in the primary log
file, you should use a non-zero value.

.B Proceed? <Y>

It you enter 'N', you will return to the Main Menu; 'Y' initiates processing.

The same information is written to the screen as in option 'O', followed by a table of power (which is
also written to the log file). An explanation of the power analysis and this table is given below.

.B ... continue? <Y>

This prompt serves to prevent the Main Menu from coming up immediately, scrolling the table of power
off the screen before you have examined it. Simply enter RETURN after you have surveryed the table.

.B C = Create a contiguous region

This option automatically includes all contiguous pixels >= threshold in a region, beginning with a
seed pixel. Any preexisting region in not erased -- hence, if you want to create a \fIsmaller\fP
region, you should zero the existing one with option 'Z' below.

\fBFile name of image files? < >\fP

.B File to determine region? < >

\fBWeight pixel values by magnitude? < >\fP

If you respond 'N', all pixel values within the ROI will be weighted equally in determining regional 
means. It you respond 'Y', each pixel value withing the ROI will be weighted using the pixel 
magnitudes in the defining image in determining the regional mean. Currently there is no proven
superority to weighting unequally, although there is reason to believe that it will be for some cases.

.B ZSEED? < >

.B XSEED? < >

.B YSEED? < >

If you have read or created a region already, the seed coordinates will default to those of that
region.

.B Boundary threshold? < >

.B Direction of Values (-1 or +1)? <1>

Allows optimization of either negative or positive peaks.

.B Display while processing? <N>

You can always display the region with option 'D" after after this computation is complete. By
entering 'Y', you can watch the region as it is being created.

.B Proceed? <Y>

It you enter 'N', you will return to the Main Menu; 'Y' initiates processing.

.B ... continue? <Y>

Press RETURN to return to the main menu.

The region created may be displayed by selecting option 'D' (above).

.B I = Individual image regional means

This option allows individual regional means to be computed for each image (plus individual
differences for PAIRED input lists). It does \fInot\fP compute it. The option was created to allow
individual means to be computed and later used for analysis in any way the user wishes (i.e., ANOVA,
scatter plots, etc.).

\fBFile name of image files < >\fP

The values will be output to the screen and to the log file.

\fBZ = Zero current region list\fPÿ

This zeros any current ROI definition along with stored values of maximum
t's and their thresholds. It is recommended at any time you recreate a
region by dropping back to more restrictive thresholds.

\fBL = Zero current limits\fPÿ

ROIs may be restricting to voxels within some limits (extending across
all slices).  This limit is drawn in the REGIONS MENU.  The limits are
eliminated by this command.

\fBRecompute region weights\fP

Region weights are pixel scalers initially defined on the image used to create a ROI. 
They may be used to compute weighted regional means (an option which appears in all computations).
They are wlays used in computing the center of mass of an ROI. If you want to use scalers
different from the ones in the defining image or if you wish to compute the center of mass of a
previously defined boundary on a new image, you must first recompute the region weights for the new
image.

\fB0 = Refresh Ramtek\fPÿ

Blanks the Ramtek screen and clears the zoom.

.B X = Exitÿ

Exits the program. Be sure to save any ROI before exiting.

.nf
Region Menu Options:ÿ
__________________________________________________________________________
.fi
.ta 0.1i 0.3i 0.5i 4.0i
	\fBD	=	Display a slice	<<REGION MENU>>ÿ
.br
	R	=	Region definitionÿ
.br
	L	=	Limit region extentÿ
.br
	E	=	Extent of limits displayedÿ
.br
	T	=	Trim pixelsÿ
.br
	Z	=	Zero region for this sliceÿ
.br
	O	=	Outlineÿ
.br
	C	=	Current region displayÿ
.br
	N	=	Next sliceÿ
.br
	M	=	Main menu\fPÿ
.br
.fi

.nf
 \fBFile\fP =  TESTDAT               Slice = 10   Scaler for Display = 0.734ÿ
 \fBSlice Range\fP = -33 to 55ÿ
 \fBInclusion Threshold\fP >= 40ÿ
 \fBPoints Defining Limit\fP = 0ÿ
 \fBSlice Pixels\fP = 14        \fBTotal Pixels\fP = 64ÿ
 \fBSlices Processed:\fPÿ
  9 10 11 12
__________________________________________________________________________
.fi

The information below the menu tells:

.ta 0.3i 
	Name of the image file on which the region is created;
.br
	Current slice number;
.br
	Scaling factor used for the display;
.br
	Range of pixel values for the current slice;
.br
	Threshold used to define the current region;
.br
	Number of pixels in any boundary limits for the regions;
.br
	Number of pixels in the region for this slice and all 
.br
	slices;
.br
	Slice numbers on which the region is defined.
.fi


.B D = Display a sliceÿ

A slice must be displayed before a region may be created.

.B Slice? < >ÿ

.B Image file name? < >ÿ

The slice is displayed with no interpolation and zoomed by a factor of 7.
The atlas z-coordinate and PET slice number (in parentheses) are written.

.B R = Region definitionÿ

A slice must be displayed before a region may be created.

\fBUse Cursor or Seed coordinates (C, S)? <S>ÿ\fP

If you select C, you will receive the prompt:

.nf
\fBMove the cursor to a point inside a region and 
press and release the left mouse button\fP
.fi

If you select S, you will receive two prompts for the x, y coordinates:

.B X? < >ÿ

.B Y? < >ÿ

X and Y are in 128x128 array space (\fBspideram\fP-coordinates).

\fBSpherical or define by Threshold (<S, T>)? <T>\fP

If you select S, you will receive the prompt:

\fBRadius? <3>\fP

The current allowed radius is between 1 and 7. After you select a radius,
the spherical region will be displayed.

If you select T, regions will be defined by threshold.
You will receive the following prompts:

.nf
\fBSlice Max\fP = 55   \fBPixel Max\fP = 42ÿ
\fBBoundary threshold (0 to cancel)? <0>\fPÿ
.fi

The threshold must be >= Pixel Max (the value of the seed pixel), or
no region will be created.

.nf
\fBDo you want to use values above or below this threshold?ÿ
Direction of Values (-1 or +1)? <1>\fPÿ
.fi

For positive peaks, use the default value of 1. If you are displaying
negative values and want to define a region on a negative peak, use -1.

\fBL = Limit region extent\fPÿ

This option is intended to allow a region to be created and optimized on
a peak which is adjacent to another peak which is not to be included.

.nf
\fBPrevious limits have been eliminated.ÿ
Make sure that the Caps Lock is OFF!

Move the cursor to a starting point and
press down the left most mouse button.

Then continue holding the button to draw a line.

When finished, release the mouse button\fP
.fi

You may identify pixels which will not be included in the region.  Sinceÿ
regions must be contiguous pixels, the pixels you draw set a boundary or
limit on any region.  This boundary extends through all slices.

Once created, these limits may be eliminated by 
zeroing the limits with option 'L' in the Main Menu.

\fBE = Extent of limits displayed\fPÿ

This option displays any existing limits (created by option 'L') on the
currently displayed slice.

\fBT = Trim pixels\fPÿ

This option allows you to selectively remove individual pixels from a region.
You will get the following prompts if you press T or t.

\fBMake sure that the Caps Lock is OFF!

Move the cursor to a starting point and
press down the left most mouse button.

Then continue holding the button to define
points to be erased.

When finished, release the mouse button.\fP

\fBZ = Zero region for this slice\fPÿ

Eliminates all voxels in the ROI on the currently displayed slice
and erases them from the display.


\fBO = Outline\fPÿ

Changes the displayed ROI so that only the boundary outline appears,
thus allowing the internal voxel values to be visualized.

\fBC = Current region display\fPÿ

Displays ROI on currently displayed slice.

\fBN = Next slice\fPÿ

This option allows you to automatically extend the region to an adjacent
slice identifying all contiguous voxels >= the same threshold or the voxels that
lie inside a 3D sphere. The comparison slice is automatically incremented in one direction.

You can achieve the same result over all slices by using options in theÿ
Main Menu. The utility of this particular option is in allowing you to
restrict the region to particular slices.

\fBComparison slice? < >\fPÿ

The comparison slice must be one on which regional pixels have been
defined.

\fBNew slice for defining region? < >\fPÿ

Must be adjacent to the comparison slice (i.e., differ by +/- 1).

\fBM = Main menu\fPÿ

Returns to the Main Menu.

\fBInterpretation of Power Analysis Table:\fPÿ

	A power analysis estimates the probability of rejecting the null
hypothesis when it is false.  Power therefore depends on the following:

	1) alpha - the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is
true (also referred to as the probability of a Type I error).

	2) population variance or standard deviation, SD

	3) sample size, n

	4) an estimate of the actual mean difference in the population, D

	In practice, alpha is set arbitrarily (customarily to 0.05 for testing
single differences).  Population variance must be estimated from a sample.
A number of different sample sizes may be tested for power.  The estimate of
the true difference depends on what is observed in a sample plus what one is
willing to accept as physiologically significant.

	The implementation of the estimate of power in \fBrapture\fP is based on the
algorithm in W.L. Hays, Statistics in the Social Sciences, 1973, p 411.  One
picks values for alpha and n, estimates SD and D from a sample set, computes a
noncentrality parameter, then uses Scheffe's (1959) approximation to the
noncentral t distribution to compute beta.  Power = 1-beta.

	For unpaired t-tests, a non-pooled estimate of variance is used as well
as a correction to the degrees of freedom for samples of different sizes.

	Use of the t test involves two assumptions:  1) the sample populations
are normal, and 2) the population variances are homogeneous (for unpaired
t's).  T tests are robust with respect to the first assumption if sample sizes
are not extremely small.  They are also more sensitive to violations for
one-tailed tests.  The second assumption is also less important if large
sample sizes (and equal samples for unpaired data) are used.

	The table of power computed by \fBrapture\fP (example below) is read as
follows.  To create the table the user has picked alpha = .005 (not the column
labeled p).  The variance is based on the current data sample (SD= 26.5474).
Sample sizes of N=2-20 are listed in rows.  Five different criterion true
differences are listed in columns (the percentages represent regional changes
with respect to global blood flow).  For each postulated difference, there are
two columns:  the first gives power for 1-tailed tests and the second for
2-tailed tests.  For most hypothesis testing you would use a 1-tailed test
(where the sign of the change is stated).

	The accuracy of this table depends on the estimate of variance, and will
suffer accordingly for small initial samples.

\fBSample Table of a Power Analysis:\fPÿ

.nf
 1- and 2-tailed power given N, p, SEDiff, and possible differences of means:
 N= 13  Mean Diff=  45.0252  SD=  26.5474  SEDiff=  7.36292 dF= 12
     T =   6.115  p(1-tail) <= 0.0005  P(2-tail) <= 0.0010
  N  dF    p         2%          3%          5%          10%         15%
   2  1  0.0050   0.08 0.08   0.08 0.08   0.09 0.08   0.10 0.09   0.11 0.09
   3  2  0.0050   0.04 0.04   0.06 0.04   0.09 0.06   0.25 0.14   0.49 0.27
   4  3  0.0050   0.05 0.03   0.08 0.05   0.21 0.13   0.74 0.51   0.98 0.88
   5  4  0.0050   0.06 0.04   0.14 0.08   0.42 0.26   0.98 0.90   1.00 1.00
   6  5  0.0050   0.06 0.03   0.15 0.08   0.50 0.32   1.00 0.96   1.00 1.00
   7  6  0.0050   0.12 0.07   0.31 0.20   0.81 0.66   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
   8  7  0.0050   0.16 0.10   0.41 0.28   0.91 0.81   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
   9  8  0.0050   0.20 0.13   0.51 0.37   0.96 0.90   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  10  9  0.0050   0.25 0.16   0.60 0.46   0.98 0.96   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  11 10  0.0050   0.29 0.20   0.68 0.55   0.99 0.98   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  12 11  0.0050   0.34 0.24   0.75 0.63   1.00 0.99   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  13 12  0.0050   0.39 0.28   0.81 0.70   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  14 13  0.0050   0.43 0.32   0.85 0.76   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  15 14  0.0050   0.48 0.36   0.89 0.81   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  16 15  0.0050   0.52 0.41   0.92 0.86   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  17 16  0.0050   0.56 0.45   0.94 0.89   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  18 17  0.0050   0.61 0.49   0.96 0.92   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  19 18  0.0050   0.64 0.53   0.97 0.94   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
  20 19  0.0050   0.68 0.57   0.98 0.95   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00
.fi

.SH PECULIARITIES
If the frame duration in a Version 6 ECAT image file is 0, rapture
will give DIFFERENT mean values from all other software (I believe by
a factor of 10).  This is due to the differences in the way 2 image libraries
interpret these files (typically a frame duration of 0 indicates a
transmission image).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBspideram\fP (1), \fBview25d\fP (1).

.SH AUTHORS

Tom O. Videen, Tom Yang: Nov 23, 1993.
