.TH RESLICEDYN 1 "05-Sep-2008" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
reslicedyn - reslice frames from a dynamic image

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
reslicedyn root ext frms reference_frame original_image

.nf
where:
  root            = root for input image filenames
  ext             = extension for input image files
  frms            = frames to align
  reference_frame = frame used as reference for aligndyn
  original_image  = original, unaligned dynamic image

.SH DESCRIPTION
This script reslices all specified frames of a dynamic image
using AIR files created by aligndyn.

Before running reslicedyn, you must have created 
single-frame images from the dynamic image using either
singlefrm_gauss or separate_dynframes. If these are not in Analyze
format, they will be converted by reslicedyn.

You must also have created combined air files by aligning
each image to the first (reference_frame) using aligndyn.

.nf
The program creates:
	1) resliced images in ECAT format (which always begin with 'r')
	2) corresponding hdr files if they exist for the original images

.fi
The program creates (as an intermediate step) resliced images in
Analyze format, but these will be removed during the processing.

The program uses img2analyze, analyze2img, and imgreslice (which in
turn uses setanamin and mv_air, and reslice from the UCLA AIR package).

.SH NOTE
The reslice images should be in the same format (ECAT 6 or 7) as the
original image specified on the command line.

This routine differs from reslice_dynpet in that it requires single-frame
image files to exist; reslice_dynpet will create them.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
reslicedyn m500mb .i 1to44 3 m500mb1.img
reslicedyn p5000fd _g3.v 2to55 3 p5000fdg1.v

.SH SEE ALSO
aligndyn, singlefrm_gauss, separate_dynframes,
merge_dynframes, remove_dynfiles, reslice_dynpet

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, Oct 1998.
