.TH SPM 1 "24-May-2007" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
spm - Statistical Parametric Mapping

.SH DESCRIPTION
SPM is a software package described in detail at
http://www.fil.ion.bpmf.ac.uk/spm/

NPG software exists to convert image files to and from SPM format.
SPM format is equivalent to Analyze format but changes 
the row ordering to left-to-right; in other words, standard
SPM images are right/left reversed from standard Analyze images.

Since SPM uses the same format and naming conventions as Analyze,
it is particularly easy to find left/right flipped in viewed images.
To avoid this, try to keep images formatted for Analyze and SPM
separate.  Use img2spm to convert ECAT images that will be used
as input for SPM and spm2img to convert them back to ECAT format.

A variety of images are created during SPM processing and can
be viewed with vidi. However, to maintain orientation, always
create an Interfile header using spm2if. Vidi preferentially
reads an Interfile header if it exists and the npg standard for
Interfile headers contains identifiers for the orientation 
(assuming that you got your images into SPM format properly
oriented before processing).

.nf
Images created by SPM:
	con_0002.img	- contrast #2
	spmT_0002.img	- t-images for contrast #2
	ResMS.img		- residual mean squared error
	RPV.img		- voxel resolution
	beta_0001.img	- parameter estimate for column 1 of design matrix

Other files:
	xCon.mat	-	design contrasts matrix

.SH TO RUN SPM99
.nf
Beginning with the Unix prompt, type:
  matlab
  spm pet

.SH TO RUN SPM5 (newest version)
.nf
You must be running SunOS 5.8 or above. Check with: uname -a
Beginning with the Unix prompt, type:
  matlab7
  path ('/data/nil-bluearc/hersheyf/spm5',path);
     or
  path ('/usr/local/npg/spm5',path);
  spm pet

.fi
Then follow the easy-to-use instructions in the examples at the web site.

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
img2spm, img2spm5, spm2if, spm2img, spmhdr, setz0

