.TH SPM2IMG 1 "22-Jan-2007" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
spm2img - convert SPM image files to ECAT 7 format

.SH SYNOPSIS
spm2img SPM_file ECAT_file [stdimg frm#]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts 8-bit or 16-bit SPM files.

Only the rootname for the input SPM file is specified. However,
the complete output ECAT filename (with extension) should be used.

If a standard image and frame number (3rd and 4th parameters) are specified,
the output ECAT file will contain the header information from the standard
image. This is necessary if frame start time and duration are important
as the Analyze file contains none of this information.

spm2img reads a pair of SPM hdr and img files and creates an ECAT (Matrix 7)
image file.  Images will be reoriented so that slice 1 is at the top of the brain.
The right/left orientation of SPM is maintained (right brain on the right).
This differs from the behavior of analyze2img which flips right/left to
place right brain on the right. 

SPM and Analyze use the same format but have different conventions for expected
pixel ordering. Worse, SPM99 and SPM5 have different conventions.
This program (spm2img) only maintains the correct image orientation if the
input file was oriented properly for SPM99, which is the case if it was created
with img2spm.

Output images will alwasy be padded or clipped so that
the slice size 128x128.  The number of slices will not be altered.
If the SPM image has an odd number of voxels in the x-dimension,
the extra padding voxel will be on the right side of the head.
For an odd number of voxels in the y-dimension, the extra padding
voxel will be posterior to the head.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
spm2img sp5000ho1 rp5000ho1.v
spm2img sp5000ho1 rp5000ho1.v p5000ho1.v 2

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
img2spm, analyze_avm

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 2000.
