.TH SUMIMGFRAMES 1 "10-Dec-2008" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
sumimgframes - creates a composite image  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sumimgframes infile outfile firstframe lastframe starttime

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sumimgframes adds consecutive frames of a dynamic image.
The output image will have 1 frame and it will be renumbered as frame 1.
The frame duration is summed over all input frames.
PETT VI and ECAT image (versions 6 & 7) file formats are supported.

If starttime is negative, the summed image will have no decay correction
(except for 953B images).
This should be used for models that use non-decay-corrected values
(e.g., CBF, CBV, OEF, CMRO2) and is incorporated in sumdyn40.

Starttime should also be negative for 953B images, which are all decay-corrected in
their original form.

If starttime is positive or 0, all data will be decay-corrected to the time
of injection. If the first summed frame was synchronous with injection, enter 0.
If the first summed frame was delayed, start time should equal this delay in seconds.

All output summed images will show a decay-correction factor of 1 in the subheader whether or not
you specified decay-correction when calling sumimgframes.

Notes: Prior to 8/6/2008 decay correction was NOT handled is this manner.
Prior to 10/8/2008 start time was optional and occasionally wrong.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
sumimgframes p7000ho1.v p7000ho1_f5to24.v 5 24 -1
sumimgframes m1000fd1.v m1000fd1c.v 1 15 0

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
sumimg, sumimgplanes, scaleimage, sumdyn40

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen: 1996.
