.TH TSE2ANALYZE 1 "13-Aug-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
tse2analyze - Converts a set of Siemens Turbo Spin Echo MR image files to
Analyze and Interfile format (img, hdr, and ifh)

.SH SYNOPSIS
tse2analyze <root1> <seq1> <seq2> <Analyze root>

.SH DESCRIPTION
tse2analyze is intended to convert a pair of TSE sequences acquired as
sets of offset slabs. To convert a pair of TSE sequences acquired as
interleaved slices, use tsei2analyze.

tse2analyze reads multiple, sequential MR image files, reorients them to the 3-D
ordering expected by Analyze and writes a single image file comprising all slices
plus an Analyze hdr file and an Interfile Format header file.  It does not
change the input data except for reorientation; specifically, it does not
generate voxels with uniform, cubic dimensions.

The extension "ima" is assumed for all MR image files.
Turbo Spin Echo sequences generate 2 sets of Siemens files with separate
root names. The sets alternate with 8 brain slices going first to root1
and then 8 slices going to root2. Tse2analyze sorts these out in creating
a single composite volume.

The extensions "img", "hdr", and "ifh" are used for output files.

The Analyze orientation will match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).

.SH NOTES ON ORIENTATION
While this program is intended to produce output in a consistent orientation (with transverse
sections), it has only been
tested with MR images in View_LtoR (sagittal).  All bets are off for other
orientations.

.SH STACKING ORDER
As of this writing, our standard head TurboSE sequence acquires 8 slabs of
8 slices each. If the slabs appear out of order, reverse the entry of 
first and second sequences on the command line (as in the example below).

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
tse2analyze 1156 3 4 p5000tse
tse2analyze 1156 4 3 p5000tse

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
tsei2analyze(1), mri2analyze(1), mriseq2analyze(1), ANALYZE, interfile(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom O. Videen

