.TH TSE2ANALYZE 1 "13-Aug-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
tsei2analyze - Converts a set of Siemens Turbo Spin Echo MR image files to
Analyze and Interfile format (img, hdr, and ifh)

.SH SYNOPSIS
tsei2analyze <root1> <seq1> <seq2> <Analyze root>

.SH DESCRIPTION
tsei2analyze is intended to convert a pair of TSE sequences acquired as
interleaved slices. To convert a pair of TSE sequences acquired as
sets of offset slabs, use tse2analyze.

tsei2analyze reads multiple, sequential MR image files, reorients them to the 3-D
ordering expected by Analyze and writes a single image file comprising all slices
plus an Analyze hdr file and an Interfile Format header file.  It does not
change the input data except for reorientation; specifically, it does not
generate voxels with uniform, cubic dimensions.

The extension "ima" is assumed for all MR image files.
Turbo Spin Echo sequences generate 2 sets of Siemens files with separate
root names. The slices are interleaved between the two root files.
Tsei2analyze sorts these out in creating a single composite volume.

The extensions "img", "hdr", and "ifh" are used for output files.

The Analyze orientation will match labels within Analyze.  Note that Analyze thinks in
radiological orientation and displays right-on-left (viewing the body from the feet).

.SH NOTES ON ORIENTATION
While this program is intended to produce output in a consistent orientation (with transverse
sections), it has only been
tested with MR images in View_LtoR (sagittal).  All bets are off for other
orientations.

.SH STACKING ORDER
If the slabs appear out of order, reverse the entry of 
first and second sequences on the command line (as in the example below).

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
tsei2analyze 1498 6 5 p6085tse
tsei2analyze 1498 5 6 p6085tse

.SH RELATED PROGRAMS
tse2analyze(1), mri2analyze(1), mriseq2analyze(1), ANALYZE, interfile(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom O. Videen

