.TH XRAY 1 "30-Sep-98" "Neuro PET Group"

.SH NAME
.B xray 
- Create SXR files based on skull xray tracings and PET image files. It is the Unix version
of 
.I sarplocs.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xray 
.I sxrfile
.I [rasfile
.I imgfile threshold peaktype trim]

.SH THE REFERENCE SLICE
\fBThe default reference slice is the lead line. This corresponds to
slice 16 if the offset is zero\fP.

The default reference slice used is slice 16. However, the user can change
the reference slice in the ``Parameters'' menu. To make sure that the reference
slice falls inside the brain, the following heuristic algorithm is used:

1) Find all the slices that have the maximum length on the skull x ray inside the
brain. The default reference slice is used to compute the lengths. 

2) Pick the center slice which has the maximum length as the new reference
slice. If the center slice is greater than 28, use slice 28 as the new reference
slice. On the other hand, if the center slice is less than 4, slice 4 is used as
the new reference slice.

The above algorithm is hidden from the user and is applied automatically after
the user selected ``Initialize'' in the ``Parameters'' menu. Please take a look
of the skull xray to make sure the reference slice selected by the algorithm
is inside the brain.

If the reference slice selected by the program falls outside the brain,
please select a slice inside the brain as the new reference slice in the 
``Parameters'' menu. Then select ``Recompute'' to recompute all the parameters. 
It is not necessary to define the reference points (glabella, inion, etc.) again.

If you think the peak slice is fine, You can either type "Cancel" or you can simply 
type "Save" on the menu bar and then "Quit". 

.SH PRINTING
Either the skull xray or the PET image can be saved as a window dump file and
be printed. Right now, it can be printed on the QMS color PostScript printer. 
Do not print the files during the peak hours; use batch files to print images 
in the evenings.

Printing on the HP Laserjet is being studied. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxray\fP creates a SXR file from an xray tracing and a PET image file. 
The SXR file is used in
\fIhd6mean\fP and \fIt88mean\fP. The xray tracing should be a grayscale Sun raster file. 
The PET image can be a 7-slice PETT VI image or a 31-slice ECAT image. For ECAT images, 
it is recommended that the images be filtered by the Gaussian filter with half 
frequency 0.2.

For parameters not specified, the following default parameters are used:

.nf
.ta 0.1i 1.8i
	sxrfile:	.sxr is automatically used as the root.
	rasfile:	.ras is added to output file root to 
		search for Sun raster files.
	imgfile:	.img is added to output file root for 
		searching PET images.
	threshold:	40 for PETT VI emission scans; 50 for ECAT 
		emission scans; 80 for transmission scans.
	peaktype:	peak per scan.
	trim:	2 for transmission images; 0 for emission 
		images.
.fi

The Sun raster file corresponding to the xray tracing is created using 
the Microtech scanner and a Macintosh computer. It is transferred to the 
Sun workstations where it is converted to grayscale Sun raster 
format (See below: ``\fBProcessing Steps\fP'').

.SH PARAMETERS
.nf
.ta 0.1i 1.6i
	\fIsxrfile\fP:	output file containing skull xray and PET 
		image parameters.

	\fIrasfile\fP:	xray raster image file.

	\fIimgfile\fP:	PET image file.

	\fIthreshold\fP:	percentage of threshold applied to PET 
		image to define the edges of the brain.

	\fIpeaktype\fP:	1: threshold computed using peak for each 
		slice; 2: threshold computed using peak for 
		the whole scan.

	\fItrim\fP:	trimming factor.
.fi

.SH PROCESSING STEPS 

Fran Miezin summaries the converting of skull xray tracings to SXR files into a 4 step process: 

   1. scan the tracing into the Macintosh using the 
      Microtech flat bed scanner
   2. transfer the tracing pict file to the Sun workstations
   3. convert the pict file to a Sun Rasterfile (.ras) with 
      appropriate orientation
   4. run the program \fBxray\fP (1) using the .ras file and an image 
      file and create an output .sxr file

.I Scanning in the Skull Tracing

Place xray tracing on the Microtech scanner bed with the front of the transparency
against the glass, the glabella near the top and the inion near the bottom. Use the scale on the
scanner bed to note the appropriate size of a bounding box which includes all of the tracing, the
glabella and inion markers, the ear marks and center slice marks. It is preferable but not necessary
for this box to be close to the brain dimension as opposed to being much larger. Place several sheets
of legal size white paper over the tracing to provide a uniformly white background for the tracing.

Close the lid on the scanner.

Select 
.I Microtek Color
from the Apple menu, i.e., the icon in the far upper left corner of the Macintosh screen.
The parameters in the window MUST be:
   SCSI 6
   Brightness:  Red:+21  Green:+21  Blue:+21
   Resolution:  100 dpi
   Scaling:     100%
   Save Format: PICT2 (Paint)

Position the bounding box in the display window on the right of the scanner bed to agree with the size
that you determined above. Press the 
.B SCAN 
button. For the filename use the subject number followed by .pic. When scanning is finished, you can
quit the application.

.I Transferring .pic File to Sun

Select
.B NCSA Telnet
from the menu displayed when the OnCue icon in the far upper right hand corner is pressed.

Select 
.B Open Connection
from the
.B File
menu. 

Enter 
.B petsun14
followed by a carriage return in the 
.B Session Name
window. 

Login to 
.B petsun14
and cd to the appropriate directory. 

Select
.B Send FTP command
from the
.B Network
menu. 

Enter
.B binary
to set the mode to binary transfer. 

Select
.B Set Transfer Directory
from the
.B File
menu and move to the directory which contains the .pic file. Click on the .pic filename and then
click on 
.B Set Directory.

Type
.B get
filename.pic.

Type
.B quit
if successfully transferred.

Type
.B exit.

.I Converting .pic File to .ras File

cd to the directory on the Suns where the .sxr files should be stored.

Type
.B picttoppm filename.pic | xv

Using the right button on the mouse, click inside of the 
.xv
window to bring up the options window.

Using one of the rotation arrows to rotate the image either clockwise or counter clockwise so that
the image is upright in the display window.

Check to make sure that all of the following are present in the image:
   the complete tracing of the inner table of the skull
   the glabella and the inion points
   the mask for the anterior and posterior position of the 
   central slice
   the ear markers locations

Select 
.B ColEdit
from the option window.

Select 
.B gray
from the left panel in the
.B ColEdit
window.

Select
.B save 
from the options menu. Save display as a 
.B Sun Rasterfile & grayscale image.

Quit the program by clicking on the
.B Quit
button.

.I Creating the .sxr File

Run
.xray
on the workstations. The program requires an image file in addition to the .ras file.
This image file should be Gaussian filtered at 0.2 and from a scan with minimal brain activation.

Under the 
.B Parameters
window enter the following values:
   ECAT scanner bed horizontal position during the xray
   ECAT scanner bed horizontal position during the scans
   The OFFSET value will be automatically calculated for ECAT 
   studies.

Select 
.B Xray
and follow the instructions. After the skull xray with the AC-PC line
is drawn on the screen, check the position of the reference slice. It
should be inside the brain. If the reference slice is outside the brain,
please go back to the ``\fBParameters\fP'' menu and redefine the
reference slice to recompute the parameters.

Select
.B WinDump
and save the drawing on the screen in a window dump file.

Select
.B PET 
and make sure that the template displayed around each of the slices is correct; specifically look for
noise pixels which make the template have an incorrect odd shape.

Select
.B Save.

Select
.B Quit.

.SH HISTORY
.nf
For xray version 3.0 by Tom Yang, the file type is 20.
For xray version 3.1 by Tom Yang, the file type is 21.

xray version 3.2 by Tom Yang (09/21/94 and 11/01/94)
	a) Allow the user to see which slice has the peak PET activity;
	b) Allow the user to select which slice to use for the threshold peak;
	c) Save this peak slice number in the sxr file; 
	d) The file type is 22.
.fi

The following calibrations apply to the 953B for all acquisitions after Oct 1994:
.nf
	e) Distance from line on cassette to the center of slice 16 = 351.7 mm;
	f) Magnification factor at center of head = 0.9325.

.SH NOTES
If processing ECAT Version 7 images, scale them by 10000000 or they won't have
proper values in xray (i.e., their values will all be < 1).

The raster file representing the x-ray is assumed to have 100 dots per inch.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
xray p2000 
xray p2000 p2000.ras
xray p2000 p2000 p2000ho1
xray p2000.sxr p2000.ras p2000ho1.img
xray p2000.sxr p2000.ras p2000ho1.img 80
xray p2000.sxr p2000.ras p2000ho1.img 20 1
xray p2000.sxr p2000.ras p2000ho1.img 80 2 1

.SH SEE ALSO
xscale(1), t88mean(1), hd6mean(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Yang: 1993.
