.TH XSCALE 1 "30-Aug-96" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
xscale - estimate x-scaler and insert into an sxr file

.SH SYNOPSIS
xscale imgfile sxrfile

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sxr files generated using a lateral radiograph contain no information
about the appropriate scaling in the x-dimension (left-to-right).
Normally, the program t88mean will estimate this at the time of processing.
However, since all scans on a single subject should have the same x-scaling,
it is desirable to compute this scaler once and insert it into the sxr
file where it will then be used for all scans.

Xscale runs t88mean to place the image in (Talairach 1988) atlas space.
It determines the PET slice which intersects the ac-pc plane at y = 0
and uses the x-width of this slice relative to the width of the atlas
slice to compute an x-scaler.  This x-scaler is inserted into the sxr
file at the end of the 4th line (see sxr(5)).

NOTE: if the sxr file already has an x-scaler, it will NOT be replaced!
To replace it, edit the sxr file and delete the last value on line 4.
Once an sxr file has a x-scaler, that value will be used every time
t88mean is run.

.nf
xscale is a shell script which calls 3 programs:
	1) t88prmlst - creates prm and lst files necessary to run t88mean;
	2) t88mean   - computes the x-scaler;
	3) sxrscale  - inserts the x-scaler in the sxr file;

.SH EXAMPLES 
.nf
xscale p1700ho1 p1700.sxr
xscale p2000ho1_g2.img p2000top.sxr
xscale p5000ho1_5b5.v p5000.sxr

.SH SEE ALSO

t88mean(1), sxr(5)
.SH AUTHOR

Tom Videen: Aug 1996.
