.TH ZXYNORM 1 "30-Sep-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
zxynorm - normalize image intensity in x,y,z-dimensions

.SH SYNOPSIS
zxynorm input mask reference output

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program normalizes the intensity of the input image to the reference 
image over all points within the mask and writes the normalized image
to an output file in Interfile format. The intent is to
eliminate MPRAGE image non-uniformity in the axial dimension.

The normalization occurs in two steps: First, the ratio of the mean
voxel intensities of the reference image to the input image is 
computed for each plane. A cubic function is fit to these ratios vs.
plane. This curve is plotted, and the fit scaler for each plane is multiplied
times all voxels in the plane.

Second, each plane is divided into a 10x10 grid (400 voxels per grid
element in a typical 256x160 MPRAGE image). All grid elements for which
at least 20% of the voxels are defined in the brain interior are used
to fit a quadratic plane (again using the ratio of the mean voxel
intensities of the reference image to the input image). The fit scalers
for each xy-point are multiplied times the individual voxel values.
The fit algorithm uses as the x,y position of each grid the mean x,y
location of all defined interior elements in that grid.

The scale factors multiplied times each plane and the 9 coefficients
for each within-plane fit are written to a .log file.

.SH EXAMPLE
zxynorm cp6080mprn2.img cp6080mprn_interior0.img cp6080mprn1.img ncp6080mprn2.img

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen, 2002

