.\" indentation start
.de Is
.in +0.5i
..
.\" indentation end
.de Ie
.in -0.5i
..
.\" example start
.de Es
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.Is
..
.\" example end
.de Ee
.Ie
.ft R
.fi
.LP
..
.TH IMAGELIST 5 "3-Jan-94" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
imagelist \- list of image files to be processed

.SH DESCRIPTION

An imagelist consists of one or more lines with the following format:
 
  string string [real] [string [real]] [real] [string.sxr]
 
where all values are written as ASCII characters and are separated 
from each other by spaces and/or tabs.  Brackets enclose optional fields.  I.e.,
the first 2 fields must exist, but the others are optional with the requirement 
that if a normalization factor is present, then a corresponding scan number must 
also be present.  The sxr field is only necessary if the default sxr is not used.
 

.nf
The definitions of the 6 fields are:
 
  string  = subject id
  string  = scan1 id (activation, when there is a scan2)
  real    = mean1
  string  = scan2 id (control)
  real    = mean2
  real    = weight
  string  = sxr name
 
Subject id is typically an integer (2000, 123) but may be any string.
 
Scanset ids may be anything, but the following carry special meaning:
  1     = single scan likely to be found in the archive (i.e., ho1)
  3w7   = welded images (i.e., ho3 welded with ho7)
  1f1v1 = multi-tracer image (i.e., oxygen image from oo1, ho1, oc1)
          the parameter "tracer" is used for the first and composite images;
          the parameter "f-tracer" is used for the scan following the "f";
          the parameter "v-tracer" is used for the scan following the "v";
 
Mean is a value which may be used for normalizing the preceding scan.
.fi
 
Weight is a real number used to create weighted images.

Sxr id is used to find sxr files which include any characters other then
"<species><subject id>.sxr".  If an sxr id is present, it must contain the 
string ".sxr".
 
Any line which begins with the character "#" will not be read.

.SH EXAMPLES
Note that any single image list should use a single rule to construct filenames!

.Es 
#This is a comment line.
2000  2
2000  2  1234.56
2000  2  1
2000  2  1  a.sxr
2000  2  1234.56  1  1342.65  0.5 
2000  2  1234.56  1  1342.65  0.5 top.sxr
2000  2  1234.56  1  1342.65  top.sxr
2000  2w5
2000  2w5  3w6
2000  2w5  3w6  weld.sxr
2000  1f1v1
2000  1f2v1  top.sxr
2000  1f1v1  2f2v2 a.sxr
#2000  2  1234.56  1  1342.65  top.sxr (this line will be ignored)
.Ee 
 
Parameters used to construct filenames:

.Es 
species:
tracer:
suffix:
extension:
recfilter:
imgfilter:
mskfilter:
f-tracer:
v-tracer:
.Ee

Each program (this refers to C code) will determine which of the filters
to use according to a passed integer parameter "filter_mode" where:

.Es
0 = use recfilter
1 = use imgfilter
2 = use mskfilter
.Ee
 
The parameters "f-tracer" and "v-tracer" are used for multi-tracer scansets.
The first character ("f" or "v" in this example) may be anything but should
correspond to the characters used in the scanset id.
 
Parameters used to construct paths:  (i.e., to find a file in the archive)
 
.Es
datapath:
category:
datatype:
scanner:
acquisition:
.Ee 
 
Rules used to construct short filenames (without the path).  Note that "imgmode" is the name of a parameter found in a parameter list and "image_mode" is the name of a variable used in C code.
Note that imgmode and imglist_mode are equivalent parameters.
  
.nf
Standard (imglist_mode: standard)  (image_mode = 0):
 
scan 1 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset1 id><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 2 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset2 id><suffix><filter>.<extension>
 
 
Difference (imglist_mode: diff)  (image_mode = 1):

scan 1 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset1 id>-<scanset2 id><suffix><filter>.<extension>
 
 
Pre-welded (imglist_mode: prewelded)  (image_mode = 2): 
 
scanset ids of the form  n1 "w" n2 (integers n1, n2; constant character "w")
 
scan 1 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset1 n1><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 2 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset1 n2><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 3 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset2 n1><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 4 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset2 n2><suffix><filter>.<extension>
 
 
Multi-tracer (imglist_mode: multitracer)  (image_mode = 3):  

scanset ids of the form  n1 c1 n2 c2 n3 (integers n1, n2, n3;  characters c1 c2)
 
scan 1 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset1 n1><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 2 = <species><subject id><tracer c1><scanset1 n2><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 3 = <species><subject id><tracer c2><scanset1 n3><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 4 = <species><subject id><tracer><scanset2 n1><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 5 = <species><subject id><tracer c1><scanset2 n2><suffix><filter>.<extension>
scan 6 = <species><subject id><tracer c2><scanset2 n3><suffix><filter>.<extension>
 
 
<suffix>: may be anything; some examples:
  a - dif images aligned by rmsimg
  n - dif images not aligned
 
<filter>:
  ramp = null
  gaussian = _g<cutoff>
  butterworth = _<order>b<cutoff>
  PETT VI = null
 
<extension>:
  "img" is default for 953b
  "" is default for PETT VI

.SH SAMPLE LISTS
.Es
Normalized activation-control scan data
2000	2	1203.94	1	1124.12	a.sxr
2012	2	991.10	1	1021.44
2013	2	1314.58	1	1743.36	a.sxr
2050	2	1734.38	1	2387.75
2110	2	938.56	1	1198.84	b.sxr
.Ee
.Es
Non-normalized paired scan data
2000	2	1
2012	2	1
2013	4	5
2050	3	2
2110	2	1
.Ee

.SH SEE ALSO
chklist(1)

.SH AUTHORS
Tom Videen, Tom Yang.
