.\" indentation start
.de Is
.in +0.5i
..
.\" indentation end
.de Ie
.in -0.5i
..
.\" example start
.de Es
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.Is
..
.\" example end
.de Ee
.Ie
.ft R
.fi
.LP
..
.TH PIEFILE 5 "05-Aug-2008" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
piefile - calibration factors for PET images

.SH DESCRIPTION
A pie file contains a PET counts to well counts conversion factor necessary to convert PET images to metabolic images.

The name "pie" refers to the shape of the original calibration phantom used before our scanners had effective deadtime
correction and was referred to as the pieslope since its value was dependent on count rate.
Currently, calibration is calculated using a uniform cylinder of activity rather than a pie phantom.
Since it is constant for any scan it is often referred to as the pie factor or just pie rather than pieslope.

pie units =  (wellcnts/cc/sec) / (PETcnts/pixel/min)

.nf
wellcnts/cc/sec = PETcnts * piefactor/framelength
where framelength is in minutes

.SH USING PETT VI PIE FILES
For PETT VI images, there are multiple pie files which must correspond in date and type (hi or low resolution) to the images you are working with.  These files typically have 3-5 conversion factors, each one for a particular counting rate or "bankpair" as PETT VI never had a deadtime correction.

.SH USING ECAT PIE FILES
For ECAT images, there is a single pie file which is adjusted for the images you are working with. The ECAT calibration or .pie file was computed from a 2D stationary acquisition (C-11)
reconstructed with all corrections (randoms, deadtime, measured attenuation and scatter).
The images were reconstructed with the factory release version 6.4C software using
normalization files generated with the same software.  The factor is constant over
activity levels ( >15 mCi in 20-cm phantom) and over time.

The conversion factor, 5.4418 (wellcounts/cc/sec) / (ECATcounts/pixel/min),
must be altered for images reconstructed differently.  In particular, the factor
should be multiplied by the following factors where they differ:

.Es
wobbled acquisition      2.0    (wobble speed > 0)
nrm from older software  0.891  (<=6.4C alpha or < Apr 12, 1993)
no scatter correction    0.893  (filter parameters 5,6 = 0)
.Ee

The factors should be combined for all conditions which are true
Scatter correction adjustment is approximate and based on the 20-cm uniform phantom.
The correction for old .nrm files is the branching factor for Ga-68 used in the
solid phantom during normalization.

The function getpie called in metproc and petproc will read the ECAT file
headers, guess the file type, and derive a factor using the following rules.  
The function will tell you when it alters the factor in the pie file.

.Es
factor = value from pie file
if (wobble_speed > 0)  factor = 2.0 * factor
if (scan_date < 19 Feb 93)  factor = 0.891 * factor
if (filter_parm(5) = 0 and filter_parm(6) = 0)  factor = 0.893 * factor
.Ee

Changes in treating the branching factor appear in 6.4C factory (tape dated Mar 17, 
installed Apr 12, next subject = p2245) and not 6.4C alpha (installed Feb 19).

With the change from 6.4C alpha to 6.4C factory, 2 changes appear in the headers:
.Es
1) ECAT_calibration_factor changed from 1.0000 (we calibrate to ECAT counts)
2) filter_code for ramp filter changed from 1 to -1 (but we changed some of
   the headers before we realized that this was not a CTI bug)
.Ee

.SH 3D 953B IMAGE PIES
All quantitative 3-D images from the 953B are assumed to have been
reconstructed with John Ollinger's scatter-correction. These images
were normalized to have the same image pixel counts per activity as
scatter-corrected wobbled images. Hence, the pie factor should be
identical to that for wobbled images (there are no 3D images prior
to April 1993 and all 3D images are assumed to be scatter-corrected
if a piefile is read).  3D images are recognized by a value of 1.0 
for filter_params[0] in the CTI subheader (2D images have 0.5 or 0.25).

.SH ECAT Counts to Well Counts
.nf
Well      = wellcounts/cc/sec
ECAT      = PET counts/pixel 
Time      = PET frame duration (min)
PieSlope  = Pie Slope (wellcounts/cc)/(ECATcounts/pixel)
PieFactor = PETT Conversion Factor = pieslope * 60
            (wellcounts/cc/sec)/(ECATcounts/pixel/min)

Well = ECAT * Time * PieFactor

.SH ECAT PIE FILE
/data/raw/953b/pie/930601sta.pie

.SH SEE ALSO
metproc, petproc, hdrinfo, piecreate, spideram

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen
