.TH PRM 5 "19-Apr-2010" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
prm - parameter file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The prm file is used by programs to set various parameter values used by 
many of our programs.
The file contains a one line entry for each parameter,
of the form:
.nf
   "key: value[, value] ..."
.fi

The key is a character string ending with a colon and followed by white
space (any number of spaces or tabs).
If a key is not used or recognized by a program, it is ignored.
There are three special cases for value:
.nf
    -      => ignore this parameter
    true   => enable the parameter corresponding to key
    false  => disable the parameter corresponding to key
.fi

Comments may appear on any line and are identified by a leading pound (#)
character.  Comments continue from the left most pound symbol to the end of
the line, i.e.,

.nf
    # a comment line
    key1:  value # a comment following a parameter
    #key2: value # this key is disabled by the first #
.fi

Blank lines may appear anywhere in the file.

.SH KEYS for EXPANDING FILENAMES
The general form for 'standard' and 'diff' imgmodes is:

.nf
<species><id><tracer><scan_number><suffix><filter_suffix><extension>

.fi
where the id and scan_number are read from the imagelist and all other
parameters are read from the prm file.
See imagelist(5) for other examples.


.IP "datapath:	(optional)}
Search this first (before ., /tmp, or the archive).

.IP "species:	(any string)"
.nf
p
m

.IP "tracer:	(any string)"
.nf
ho
co
oo

.IP "suffix:	(any string)"
.fi
Insert into filename after scan number and before
any filter suffix or extension.

.IP "extension:	(any string)"
.nf
v		(typically for 961 or 962)
img		(default for 953)
		(default for pett6 is none)

.IP "imglist_mode:	(equivalent to imgmode)"
.IP "imgmode:	(see man imagelist for examples)"
Specifies how an imagelist should be expanded.
standard    (2000 3 7)	(default)
diff        (2000 3 7)
prewelded   (2000 3w7)
multitracer (2000 2w6 3w7)
welded      (2000 3w7)
literal     (h3dweld13f1.img h3dweld13f2.img h3dweld13f1w14f2.img)

.SH ADDITIONAL KEYS for IMAGE PROCESSING
.IP imgfilter: (use depends on program)
.nf
gauss 0.3
butterworth 0.5 5
none

.IP "mskimg:	(image from which a mask is created)"
.nf
control_image           # use control image of each pair
specified mask_filename # use this file for entire list

.fi
Note that "control_image" and "specified" are keywords and must be
typed EXACTLY as shown.

.IP "mskfilter:	(filter applied to mskimg)"
.nf
gauss 0.3
butterworth 0.7 5
none

.IP "mskpct:	(percent cutoff applied to mskimg)"
.nf
40    (traditional for PETT VI emission)

.IP processing:
.nf
none
cbf             (cerebral blood flow)
cbv             (cerebral blood volume)
tissue_activity (tissue activity)
wellcounts      (well counts)
oef             (oxygen extraction fraction)
cmro2           (cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen)

.IP "halflife:	(in sec; real number > 0)"
REQUIRED for voistat.

.SH ADDITIONAL KEYS for t88mean:
.nf
.IP "smg_norm:	(real number > 0)"
Normalize all scans to this value.

.IP "smg_mode:	(defines how to expand imagelist)"
single   (list of single scans)
paired   (list of paired scans:  activation & control)
diff     (list of difference images)

.IP smg_divisor:
global   (divide by global N)
local    (divide by scan contributing to each pixel)

.IP smg_included:
all      (include all pixels)
sampled  (zero pixels not completely sampled)

.IP smg_nimage:
yes      (create an image of number sampled at each pixel)
no       (default)

.IP smg_sdimage:
yes      (create an image of standard dev. at each pixel)
no       (default)

.IP smg_symmetry:
yes      (correct each image for symmetry about YZ-plane)
no       (default)

.IP smg_mask:
yes      (use input mask; for dif images)
no       (default)

.IP smg_mskpct:
0 - 100  (0 indicates no masking)

.IP "pixel_size:	(in cm; overrides default pixel size)"
0.260777  (ecat images zoomed 1.5)
0.208621  (ecat 3D images)
0.286     (pett6 standard)

.IP "plane_separation:	(in cm; overrides default plane separation)"
0.3375    (961)
1.44      (pett6)

.IP z0:
.nf
Overrides default z-origin (31).

.IP zmax:
Overrides default number of slices (49).

.IP atlfile:
cortical.ats
frontal.ats
global.ats
motor.ats
psych.ats
spip.ats
survey.ats
/usr/local/lib/locate/cortical.ats

.SH ADDITIONAL KEYS for voistat:
.IP "voi_norm:	(real number > 0)"
Normalize all scans to this value.

.IP voi_sd:
.nf
yes:		compute and save pixel standard deviations
no:		.sd file will not be created (default)

.IP "voi:	(specify VOI shape and size)"
.nf
cube       xdim ydim zdim
old_sphere diameter    (spherical in numbers of pixels)
new_sphere diameter    (spherical in actual distance)
(dim, ydim, zdim, and diameter are in mm)

.IP "rgt_format:	(output .rgt file format)"
regioncol
regionrow

.IP "frames:	(frames to process)"
1		(default)
all

.IP regfile:
.fi
Specify a region file to be used for either all images or all frames.
The default is to use the atlfile to construct a regfile for each
image file.

.SH KEYS UNIQUE to hd6mean:
.IP "hd6_divide_by:		(single character passed to hd6mean)"
.nf
L   (divide by local N)
G   (divide by global N)

.IP "hd6_include:	(single character passed to hd6mean)"
.nf
A   (include all pixels)
N   (include only completely sampled pixels)

.SH OBSOLETE KEYS for SEARCHING IMAGE ARCHIVE
.IP scanner: 
.nf
961
953
ecat		(equivalent to 953)
pett6

.IP acquisition:
.nf
2d                                   (961)
3d                                   (961)
stationary                           (953)
wobble                               (953)
low_resolution                       (pett6)
high_resolution                      (pett6)

.IP reconstruction: 
.nf
filtered_backprojection              (961, 953 or pett6)
fbu                                  (961; no scatter correction)
3d_filtered_backprojection           (953)
3d_filtered_backprojection_jmo_norm  (953)
3d_filtered_backprojection_jmo_scat  (953)
filtered_backprojection_old          (pett6)
maximum_likelihood                   (pett6)
filtered_backprojection_Dave_Politte (pett6)

.IP recfilter:
.nf
ramp                                 (961 or 953)
filterg                              (pett6)
filterf                              (pett6)
12       (filter cutoff in mm)       (pett6)

.SH SEE ALSO
.fi
imagelist(5), imgmean(1), t88mean(1), t88trans(1), voistat(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Videen.

