.TH REC 5 "5 Aug 93" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
rec \- image record file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each rec file contains information
about the programs and commands used to create or modify an image file.
  
.SH NAMING CONVENTION
.nf
The extension ".rec" is appended to the image file name

  image file = mydata.smg
  rec file   = mydata.smg.rec

.SH SYNTAX
Rec files consist of nested blocks of the form:

  rec
  endrec

.fi
Each program which creates an image file or alters an existing one will
create a rec file which begins with the line:

.nf
rec <image_file_name> <date> <user_id>

where:
  image_file_name = file name without path
  date = date and time; (also inserted in the image file header)
  user_id 

.fi
The same date + time will be written to the image file header as
a check that an image and rec file correspond.

The second line will be the command line which created or modified the image
file (i.e, the program name and the parameters passed).

If a parameter list (see prm (5)) is included in the input, it will appear
next in a block of the form:

.nf
  prm
  endprm
.fi

with the parameter list copied between these two lines.

If an image list (see imagelist (5)) is included in the input, it can
appear next in a block of the form:

.nf
  list
  endlist
.fi

If the program reads any other image files, then their rec files will
be added to the list (appended directly as they are read).  If an image
is read and no rec file is found, the line

  filename.rec not found

will be added to the output rec file.

Other information in the rec file will include anything which the program
may measure or compute that is deemed worth saving (i.e., transformation
matrices, conversion factors, etc).

Redundancy may be reduced either by the program or by a separate
redundancy-eliminator program by eliminating references to certain
parameter keywords which appear in the initial prm-endprm block which
might appear in any rec files read and appended by the program.  The
parameters screened would include any which required the input to be
of a particular type but exclude any parameters which indicated that
the particular value should be ignored.

.SH AUTHORS
Avi Snyder and Tom Videen

.SH SEE ALSO
prm(5), imagelist(5)
