.TH SXR 5 "26-Oct-94" "Neuroimaging Lab"

.SH NAME
\fBsxr\fP - skull xray file format

.SH DESCRIPTION
sxr files are created by the program \fBxray\fP (1). The following is
a line by line explanation for the sxr file format. 

Line 1: sxr file version and program version
        TYPE
	22 {created by xray version 3.2}

Line 2: Header (arbitrary character string)
        p2176.sxr; 50% scan peak template of p2176ho1. 
        slices 1-31; 2/10/93; ty7777

Line 3: PET scan number 
	p2176

Line 4: Variable names and sample

  PIX  MF  NSLICES  SLCSIZE  REFSLICE  ZATLDIM  APATLDIM  
.br  
  FILM_POS  SCAN_POS  OFFSET  PEAKSLICE  XSCALE  

  0.261 0.960 31 0.338 16 7.00 16.30 0.0 352.8 0.0 12 0.95

.ta 0.2i 1.2i
	PIX:	pixel size (cm / pixel).
.br
	MF:	magnification factor for the skull xray (cm).
.br
	NSLICES:	number of slices in tomographics system.
.br
	SLCSIZE:	PET slice separation (cm).
.br
	REFSLICE:	reference slice number.
.br
	ZATLDIM:	the vertical dimension from the center of AC-PC 
.br
		in atlas (cm).
.br
	APATLDIM:	length of the AC-PC in the atlas (cm).
.br
	FILM_POS:	film position (mm), used for ECAT images.
.br
	SCAN_POS:	scan position (mm), used for ECAT images.
.br
	OFFSET:	the OFFSET (mm) is the axial difference between 
.br
		slice 16 and the lead line on the xray. For ECAT 
.br
		images created before September, 1994,
.br
		offset = scan_pos - film_pos - 352.8. 
.br
	PEAKSLICE:	slice whose peak is used to define the threshold 
.br
		value.
.br
	XSCALE:	xscale factor, computed by \fBt88mean\fP (1).
.fi

Line 5: Variable names and sample

  APXRAY  DEGX  ZXRAY   DZ     DAP   APCTR  EARSEP 

  17.455  7.52  8.59  -0.55   0.03   77.50  13.35  

.ta 0.2i 1.2i
	APXRAY:	length of the AC-PC line on the skull xray (cm).
.br
	DEGX:	angle between a PET slice and the AC-PC line 
.br
		(degree).
.br
	ZXRAY:	distance from the center of the AC-PC to the 
.br
		vertex of the skull xray (cm).
.br
	DZ:	distance from the center of the AC-PC line to 
.br
		the reference slice using a line perpendicular 
.br
		to the reference slice (cm).
.br
	DAP:	distance from the A-P center of the reference 
.br
		slice to the point where the line perpendicular 
.br
		to the reference slice to the center of the 
.br
		AC-PC line intersects slice 3 (cm).
.br
	APCTR:	center coordinate of the AP axis for the 
.br
		reference slice.
.br
	EARSEP:	R-L separation of the ear markers (cm).
.fi

Line 6: Variable names and sample

  RLPETDIM  RLCTR  VERTPETDIM  RLSLICEDIM

    41.0    67.5      48.0       13.5

.ta 0.2i 1.2i
	RLPETDIM:	R-L dimension of PET slices (pixels).
.br
	RLCTR:	center of the R-L axis of PET slices (pixel 
.br
		number); counting from 1.
.br
	VERTPETDIM:	AP dimension of PET slices (pixels).
.br
	RLSLICEDIM:	AP dimension of PET slices in xray (cm).
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBt88mean\fP (1), \fBxray\fP (1).

.SH AUTHOR
Tom Yang, October 26, 1994.
