.TH VOI 5 "09-Dec-2002" "Neuroimaging Lab"
.SH NAME
voi - volume-of-interest file

.SH VOI TYPES
There are four different VOI formats used by different programs:

1) voistat, voiproc, and voicoss (this man page).
.br
The first line of these files always begins with '30'.
.br
Files contain 1 line for each VOI with X,Y,Z coordinates of its center.
Size and shape are defined in a parameter file (man prm);
regular shapes only (cubes or spheres). This VOI permits
ease of measurements using a single voxel coordinate.

.nf
2) vidi, vstat, voi_enlarge, voihisto, voihistos (man vidi_voi).
.br
.fi
The first line of a vidi voi file always begins with 'VOI'.
.br
The file structure is a linked list of circles, rectangles,
or irregular traces (hand-drawn or thresholded).
One VOI can comprise multiple shapes from multiple planes.
This VOI permits full flexibility in structural definition.

3) spideram (man reg).
.br
The first line of these files always begins with '20'.
.br
Regions are always 2-dimensional and usually rectangular,
although an irregular region definition is possible.

4) vidivoi (full Analyze-format images).
.br
These can be converted to voistat format using voimake.

.SH DESCRIPTION
A voi file contains a list of X, Y, Z coordinates which define the centers of
regular volume-of-interest in PET space (in pixels). Coordinate values
start with 1 and not 0; e.g., for a 128 x 128 slice, the center is (64.5, 64.5).

Currently, X and Y are in pixels and Z is a slice number.
The coordinate (1, 1, 1) is at the left, anterior, superior corner of the
image volume.

The file begins with 3 header lines that are followed by the list of points.

.nf
\fILine 1\fP:
    integer string

where:
    integer = file type (must be 30!)
    string  = PET image type (may be anything)

\fILine 2\fP:
    string

where this may be anything but typically might be:
    string = program that created this file
    real   = version number of that program
    string = user id
    string = short atlas filename used in creating this file
    string = short sxr filename used in creating this file

\fILine 3\fP:
    integer

where:
    integer = number of points in this file

\fILines 4+\fP:
    string real real real

where:
    string = name of VOI (single string with no blank spaces)
    reals  = X, Y, Z coordinates in PET pixels of the center of the VOI
	(unlike spideram reg files, this is read in free format)

.SH NOTE
Given a parameter file and subject list file, a voi file name is constructed
by using the following algorithm:
.nf
    filename = <species><subject_id><atlfile_root>.voi

Also, note that the voi file for voistat differs from the voi file created
and used by vidi.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
30   pett6
locate  1.1  tom  cortical.ats  p2000.sxr
3
left_prefrontal_cx   51.16   47.68   4.78
globus_pallidus      67.83   56.74   4.86
md_thalamus          61.56   66.68   4.03 

.SH SEE ALSO
voistat, locate, spideram, vidi_voi, voimake

.SH AUTHORS
Tom Videen, Tom Yang.
